---
title 		: Essential Studio for JavaScript 2015 Vol 4 Release Notes
description : Essential Studio for JavaScript 2015 Vol 4 Release Notes
platform 	: js
---

# Essential Studio for JavaScript Release Notes

{% include release-info.html date="January 13, 2016" version="v13.4.0.53" %} 



## Common

### Features
{:#common-features}

* TypeScript syntaxes have been updated to support from version 1.4 and above.
* Introduced ej.globalize method to support all the culture related functionalities that are previously supported. The ej.globalize method works without any disruption even when used along with Globalize 0.9 to Globalize 1.0 versions.Also we provide en-US Locale text object, which gives user flexibility to convert it or create their own local language object with some simple modifications.
* \#146998 – Now Theme gallery in online JS sample browser will render as user friendly with rich appearance.
* \#148873 - Now AngularJS functions and events will trigger properly, even if we use 'custom directive' and 'ng-blur' directive of AngularJS in our EJ components.
* \#F120840, \#146022 - RequireJS can be used with Knockout binding in our components.

### Bug Fixes
{:#common-bug-fixes}

* \#148239 - Provided support for TypeScript d.ts file for 1.3.0.18 version
* \#149065 - ej.GridColumn lacks the headerTextAlign property in TypeScript has been fixed.
* \#143229 - Touch scroll will works smoothly in JS sample browser in mobile devices.
* \#148120 - Standard variable is defined to receive the image path in LESS file.
* \#148083 - Preserve only the user selectable model states instead of saving all model states when persistence is enabled in EJ components.
* \#F121129 – We can edit the textbox control values which is rendered with AngularJS model binding.
* \#145423  - All components APIs Sample will get show properly in Mozilla Firebox 41.0.1 version also.
* \#144786 - All properties buttons in the API samples automatically get disabled once you destroyed the component.





## ejAccordion

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejaccordion-bug-fixes}
 
* \#145271, \#145329 - Now individual panel item/tab can be collapsed in Accordion

## ejAutoComplete

### Features
{:#ejautocomplete-features}

* \#148898 - Provided support to add custom value by using public method.

### Bug fixes
{:#ejautocomplete-bug-fixes}

* \#148301 - Script error throws while setting value without `dataSource`.
* \#148898 - Water mark text is not set properly when `multiSelectMode` is set as visual mode.
* \#148898 - Autocomplete value is not set properly through `selectValueByText` method when `allowAddNew` property is set as true.
* \#148838 - Script error throws while searching special characters like "(", "*", etc.
* \#144800 - In KnockoutJS binding support, `change` event is triggered properly when we select the value from popup.

## ejBarcode

### Features
{:#ejbarcode-features}

* Support for customizing the barcode size is now added based on the actual size of the control.

Example
{% highlight js %}
//Customize the barcode height and width 
 $("#barcode").ejBarcode({ 
 text: "SYNCFUSION", 
 width:400, height:400, 
 symbologyType: "qrBarcode"});
{% endhighlight %}

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejbarcode-bug-fixes}

* `lightBarColor` property is now working properly for 2D Barcodes.



## ejChart

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejchart-bug-fixes}

* \#143628 - Annotation is now rendering properly on legend click.
* \#120794 - Rounding place is now working for dataLabel.
* \#144372 - Automatic interval for custom range is now calculated properly for numeric axis.
* \#145569 - AxesLabelRendering event is now triggering for first label of axis.
* \#140909 - Additional RangePadding is now working properly.
* \#149191, \#121562 - Data label template is now working properly for datetime axis.
* \#147629, \#148176 - Label format is now added for dataLabel.
* \#147629 - Added data label template for 3D chart.
* \#147499 - Chart is now rendering properly without long running script error when the rounding place is 1.
* \#147230 - Legend is now rendering properly with special character.
* Now the range for log axis should be in power of log base like 10^1, 10^2, 10^3 etc.

### Features
{:#ejchart-features}

* Provided support for [Error bar](http://help.syncfusion.com/js/chart/chart-types#errorbar-chart) in Chart.
* Provided support for [Waterfall](http://help.syncfusion.com/js/chart/chart-types#waterfall-chart) Chart.
* Provided options for customizing the empty point.
* Provided support for selecting multiple data point or series.
* Provided support for trimming or wrapping legend text.
* Provided support for preventing the tooltip in trackball from overlapping. 
* Series is now supported with dashed border.
* Chart now have the option to toggle the side by side placement of the series.
* Additional events have been added to handle user interaction in Chart, annotations and axis labels. 

### Breaking Changes
{:#ejchart-breaking-changes}

* Tooltip decimal value cannot be rounded using roundingPlaces property in axis, instead we can round using [tooltip](http://jsplayground.syncfusion.com/kni45ksz) format.
* Default size of legend icon has been changed from (10,10) to (9,9).


## ejCheckbox

### Breaking Changes
{:#checkbox-breaking-changes}

* \#146492 – 'checkChange' event argument "isChecked" will returns Boolean type value.


## ejColorPicker

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejcolorpicker-bug-fixes}

* \#144778 - When you click on the ‘Opacity value’ text box, and immediately click anywhere on the form, the color of the palette becomes plain white issue is resolved.

## ejDatePicker

### Features
{:#ejdatepicker-features}

* \#148864 – New custom class can be added to special date fields, which allows to add the required styles to special date.

## ejDateTimePicker

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejdatetimepicker-bug-fixes}

* \#148208 - Keyboard action will work properly after click on the time portion of the date time control.

* \#147352 - DateTimePicker buttons are aligned accurately in Windows 10 safari browser. 

### Breaking changes	
{:#ejdatetimepicker-breaking-changes}

* Time popup width has been changed in date time picker control.

### Features
{:#ejdatetimepicker-features}

* \#124136 - DateTimePicker allows to drill down up to time interval on selected date with meridian details.

* \#144462 – We can set the popup position in the bottom or top of the DateTimePicker input element.

* \#F124136 – DateTimePicker popup will get close automatically, once you select the Date and Time value in the popup.



## ejDiagram

### Features
{:#ejdiagram-features}

* \#145728 - Support to provide scaling for the Label's Text Editor has been implemented.
* \#145263, \#145437 - Support to edit the diagram through API methods, when diagram is readonly has been implemented.
* \#143229 - Built-in support to update the diagram size on window resizing has been provided.
* \#143724 - Template support for palette header has been implemented.
* \#142040 - Support to drag and drop elements from one diagram to another has been implemented.
* \#146304,\#147801 - Support to prevent the element from moving outside of page bounds has been implemented.

### Bug fixes
{:#ejdiagram-bug-fixes}

* \#145720 - Gradient for palette items is rendering properly now.
* \#144102 - Updating visibility of user handles is working properly now.
* \#143638 - Updating gridlines at runtime is working properly now.
* \#145548 - Phase resizing is working properly now.
* \#145391 - Connectors are rendered twice in a group node, while performing save and load operation issue is fixed.
* \#145263 - Issue in clearing diagram by using setModel method is resolved.
* \#144834 - Click event is fired on panning completed issue is resolved.
* \#145783 - Unable to update shadow at runtime by using `updateNode` API is fixed.
* \#144720 - Disable move icon in the UML diagram sample is resolved.
* \#144613 - When you press up/down arrow keys, the oldValue arguments in the propertyChange event is updated now.
* \#144567 - Issue with Z-order, after performing save and load operation in diagram is now resolved.
* \#144721 - The tooltip for AngularJS sample can be disabled now.
* \#144182 - AngularJS binding is applied for the nodes at runtime.
* \#148257 - Issue with straight segment has been fixed.
* \#147576 - Selection is now cleared, if the drop event is canceled. 
* \#147193 - While activating both `SingleSelect` and `ZoomPan` Tools, node does not get selected is fixed.
* \#146879 - Changing the node properties in node collection changed event is working properly.
* \#145391 - Issue in exporting the group node while performing the clipboard operation in group after saving and loading the diagram is fixed.
* \#146242 - Unable to cancel the text editor, while zooming the diagram is fixed.
* \#146171 - Unable to change the radial gradient from linear gradient is fixed.
* \#145263 - Port to Node connection is rendered properly.
* \#145453 - Bridging created for connector unnecessarily is fixed.
* \#145391 - After performing the clipboard and serialization functionalities with group node, Exporting is not working properly is fixed.
* \#148937 - Connector gets selected, when we click within the rectangular bounds is fixed.
* \#148038 - Context menu is now displayed on the right click, when diagram is in read-only mode.
* \#148322 - Multiple nodes are added while dragging and dropping the shapes to labels from symbol palette is fixed.
* \#148695 - Gradient is now applied, when we delete the SVG node which has its own defs section.
* \#148409 - Issue with diagram clear API method has been fixed now.
* \#148449 - Boundary constraint is now working as expected while dragging the elements.
* \#148033 - Selection is now updated properly, when we perform nudge operation with multiple nodes and its connections.
* \#148030 - Undo is now working properly for the multiple selection with nudge operation.
* \#146304 - Property Changing is working properly now after selecting the multiple nodes within the lane.
* \#147011 - Issue with label dragging is fixed.
* \#148063 - While hiding the text node, the text not get hidden is fixed.
* \#146956 - Initial docking is now working properly for port to port creation.

### Breaking changes
{:#ejdiagram-breaking-changes}

* `ej.datavisualization.Diagram.phase` is depreciated. Instead of that, use `ej.datavisualization.Diagram.Phase`.
## ejDialog


### Bug fixes
{:#ejdialog-bug-fixes}

* \#148713 - Script error throws while rendering dialog with iframe in IE browser.

### Breaking Changes

<table>
<tr>
<td>
Member Type<br/><br/></td><td>
Old API Name<br/><br/></td><td>
New API  Name<br/><br/></td><td>
Comments<br/><br/></td></tr>
<tr>
<td>
Properties<br/><br/></td><td>
closeIconTooltip<br/><br/></td><td>
tooltip: {<br/>close: "Close",<br/>collapse: "Collapse",<br/>restore: "Restore",<br/>maximize: "Maximize",<br/>minimize: "Minimize",<br/>expand: "Expand",<br/>unPin: "UnPin",<br/>pin: "Pin"<br/>}<br/><br/></td><td>
Instead of closeIconTooltip, <br/> close option can be used under tooltip API.<br/><br/></td></tr>
</table>






## ejDropDownList

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejdropdownlist-bug-fixes}

* \#148303 -Not able to bind a number data to the DropDownList text field has been resolved.

* \#148369 – Now DropDownList popup positioning will work properly when we scrolling the page. 

## ejFileExplorer

### Bug fixes
{:#ejfileexplorer-bug-fixes}

* \#141095 – All typo issue has been resolved in FileExplorer.

* \#148731 - Events triggered information has been standardized in FileExplorer sample.

* \#141095 - Up and Down arrows now working in thumbnail view of FileExplorer properly.

* \#141095 - Now we can move the split pane easily in FileExplorer as like windows. 

* \#148731 - FileExplorer toolbar items container will not float outside of the control.

* \#140316 - We can customize the ContextMenu items of FileExplorer.

### Features	
{:#ejfileexplorer-features}

* \#141095 – Now FileExplorer control will not throws script error when you specify the file/folder name with 200 or more characters. 

* \#141095 - We can create the new folder in file system using context menu even if the content is full in grid view of files.

* \#141095 – New sample is added to showcase the RTL with localization support.

* \#F119938 – Column template option has been provided for FileExplorer.



### Breaking changes
{:#ejfileexplorer-breaking-changes}

*  Select event arguments “name” and “path” value has been changed.

*	“name” –  Returns the selected item names in array.




## ejGantt

### Features
{:#ejgantt-features}

* \#146380, \#146718, \#147022, \#147249 - Implemented Toolbar click event in Gantt. 
* \#144007 - Support for restraining taskbar auto validation due to predecessors has been provided.
* \#144527 -  Support for changing splitter position based on column width has been provided.
* \#146380, \#146718, \#147022, \#147249 - Implemented events to get notification when add/edit dialog opens or closes.

### Bug fixes
{:#ejgantt-bug-fixes}

* \#148024 - Issue while modifying the start/end date in Gantt dialog adding has been resolved.
* \#147358 - Issue while giving baseline start date as empty string has been resolved.
* \#146982 - Issue with [`queryTaskbarInfo`](http://help.syncfusion.com/js/api/ejgantt#events:querytaskbarinfo) client side event has been fixed.
* \#146982 - Resource mapping issue while adding a new row has been fixed.
* \#148776 - Unable to edit parent task's resource list using edit dialog box has been fixed.
* \#147131 - Item collection is not updated properly has been fixed.
* \#144626, \#147167 - Validate the resource values of Gantt data has been resolved .
* \#145837 - Milestone height is not updated as per rowHeight of the Gantt has been resolved.
* \#144287 - Issue with rendering connector lines for taskbars with duration less than 10 days in year schedule mode has been fixed.
* \#144553 - Issue with validating add dialog has been fixed.
* \#144429 - Issue while calculating duration on holidays has been fixed.
* \#144841 - Issue in cancellation of the [`actionBegin`](http://help.syncfusion.com/js/api/ejgantt#events:actionbegin) event while deleting the row has been fixed.
* \#144840 - Issue while using custom drop down field has been fixed.
* \#144767 - Issue while changing resource collection using dialog editing has been fixed.
 
### Breaking changes
{:#ejgantt-breaking-changes}

* [`splitterPosition`](http://help.syncfusion.com/js/api/ejgantt#members:splitterposition) property in Gantt has been deprecated, instead `splitterSettings` property has been introduced.
* [`actionComplete`](http://help.syncfusion.com/js/api/ejgantt#events:actioncomplete) event will be triggered only once with the collection of records which were updated on an action in Gantt.
* The default value for [`enableResize`](http://help.syncfusion.com/js/api/ejgantt#members:enableresize) property has been changed to true.
* [`actionComplete`](http://help.syncfusion.com/js/api/ejgantt#events:actioncomplete) event with requestType `recordUpdate` will not be triggered while adding a new row in Gantt. It will be triggered only when a task is updated.
 
## ejGrid

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejgrid-bug-fixes}

* \#147000,#147864 - No records to display message shown while binding empty data using DataManager with default grouped columns.
* \#147099 - Custom filter works in string columns.
* \#147176 - Custom context Menu items does not display as unordered list.
* \#147177 - Context Menu item works when clicking template column.
* \#147433 - OnEnter filterbar mode does not delay 1500ms. 
* \#147958 - Boolean Column support all cultures localization.
* \#148931 - Export date column values in same format as of in ejGrid.
* \#149065 - Included the ~headerTextAlign property in TypeScript.

### Breaking Changes
{:#ejgrid-breaking-changes}

* The locale object property ej.Grid.locale, ej.Pager.locale and ej.ExcelFilter.locale changed as ej.Grid.Locale, ej.Pager.Locale and ej.ExcelFilter.Locale respectively.
* Removed the blue bottom border from grid header.
* Provided indeterminate state support in excel, by providing this support select all check box in excel filter have tri state check option.
* ejGrid Row selected index will not persist, when we set ~allowSelection as false through set model. 

## ejListBox


###	Bug fixes
{:#ejlistbox-bug-fixes}

* \#148246 - Drag and drop is now working properly while using it on other control
* \#146829 – Now the argument items should be always an array in `itemDragStart` event.
* \#149357 - ID is not generated while using a numeric character in ID name is fixed
* \#145483 - Can't use arrow keys and ctrl + A keyboard action in the textbox even if it is placed inside the ListBox with or without template option is fixed
* \#147245 - `selectedIndex` and `selectedItemIndex` properties are now working as expected, when it is rendered with AngularJS binding support.
* \#146807 - Enabled and disabled items indices will maintain properly even after added/removed the items based on the index.
* \#144947 - Now, Disabled Items will not get selected, while selecting the items using `selectAll()` method.
* \#144953 - Now, you cannot able to drag the disabled items. 

### Breaking changes
{:#ejlistbox-breaking-changes}

* \#146829- Now ListBox control events `itemDragStart`, `itemDragStop`, `itemDrop` and `itemDrag` provides the item list in an array type via event argument.


## ejListView

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejlistview-bug-fixes}

* \#144857 - Now the default mouse cursor will change as link cursor, when the mouse is hovered on the back button in ListView.

## ejMap

### Features
{:#ejmap-features}

* \#139791 - Improved loading performance of OpenStreetMap.
* \#144723 - Provided Tooltip support for Navigation control.

### Bug fixes
{:#ejmap-bug-fixes}

* \#144724 - Map parts disappearing issue while zooming the map and dynamic resetting of shape stroke thickness value has been fixed.
* \#149041 - Map position changing issue while zooming the map and dynamic resetting of shape stroke thickness value has been fixed.

## ejMenu

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejmenu-bug-fixes}

* \#147086 - Sub Menu will open in RTL direction while rendering Menu with RTL.

## ejOlapClient

### Bug fixes
{:#ejolapclient-bug-fixes}

* \#148494 - Excel-like layout is now working properly when connected to Mondrian Server.
* \#148587 - PivotGrid control extending beyond OlapClient layout has been fixed, when GridOnly mode and responsive layout is set.
* \#148662 - Visible property issue from CubeSchema has been fixed.
* \#148758 - Missing hierarchy name in Tooltip and Member Editor for Mondrian Cube has been fixed.
* \#148960 - TreeNode can be dropped now in top and in-between the SplitButtons.

## ejOlapGauge

### Bug fixes
{:#ejolapgauge-bug-fixes}

* \#144522 - Localization issue in labels has been fixed.

# ejPdfViewer

## Introduction
{:#ejpdfviewer-introduction}

`ejPdfViewer` is a visualization component to view PDF documents. It is powered by HTML5/JavaScript and provides various control customizations.

### Features 
{:#ejpdfviewer-features}

* Ability to load document with thousands of pages instantly.
* Virtualization holds only the minimal pages at runtime for reducing memory consumption.
* Compatible with all the modern browsers with HTML5/CSS3/JavaScript support.
* Support for 12 different types of pre-defined themes allows you to switch between them to view the controls in different formats. 

Please refer the live [demo](http://js.syncfusion.com/demos/web/#!/azure/pdfviewer/gettingstarted)
## ejPivotGrid

### Features
{:#ejpivotgrid-features}

* \#134761,\#136150,\#141741,\#142567,\#142566,\#147387 - PivotGrid can now work completely on client-side for relational data sources alone. The raw items are sent in JSON format, resulting in a summarized PivotGrid with drill up and drill down capabilities. Along with this features like sorting and filtering are also supported. UI interactions can be done either through Grouping Bar or PivotTable Field List. To know more about this support, [click here](http://js.syncfusion.com/demos/web/#!/azure/pivotgrid/relational).
## ejRadioButton

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejradiobutton-bug-fixes}

* \#F120740 - The medium size radio button checked sign is now centered properly.

* \#143229 - Sample browser controls will display in all devices such as desktop and mobile devices.

## ejRating

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejrating-bug-fixes}

* \#144786 - Tooltip will not flick, when mouse is hovering on the ‘Half precision’  Rating control.

## ejReportViewer

### Features
{:#ejreportviewer-features}

* \#148598 - Provided Convert expression support for ReportViewer.
* \#145148 - Exposed shared data source credentials information to IReportController.
* \#146681 - Provided support to get available data source.

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejreportviewer-bug-fixes}

* \#145780 - Assembly reference path in Code Modules now works properly.
* \#145976 - Image can be loaded from HTTPS link.
* \#144747 - Incorrect expressions spacing problem has been resolved.
* \#147754 - Images can be loaded from Dataset Fields.
* \#148168 - Resolved the browser orientation problem in printing.
* \#148598 - Incorrect millisecond formatting has been resolved.
* \#147730 - All report exceptions added to ReportViewer Error event.
* \#146054 - ReportViewer performance problem when rendering huge Report Items has been resolved.
* \#148168 - Resolved the Tablix cell width problem when exceeds the parent report item width.
* \#146053 - Resolved nested Tablix report items overlapping.
* \#148088 - Resolved exception in enabling optional parameters function invoking in Code Modules.
* \#148168 - Resolved control performance problem when changing the orientation.
* \#146047 - Resolved dependent parameter value changing while refreshing the report.

## ejRibbon

### Features
{:#ejribbon-features}

* Implemented Quick Access Toolbar




## ejRotator

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejrotator-bug-fixes}

* \#148354 – Rotator control will render properly, even if we sets the RTL direction to its parent element. 

## ejSchedule

### Features
{:#ejschedule-features}

* Distinct time interval option with well-classified and customizable major & minor slots (TimeScale) has been introduced to view the appointments clearly.
* PDF Export option has been added to the Scheduler which allows the users to export its content into PDF file format.
* The user can now customize other Scheduler elements like work cells, all-day cells and date header cells with template option.
* Validation support has been added to the Scheduler appointment window fields to empower the client-side validation.
* The work cells in the timeline view has now been improved to automatically adjust its height based on its exceeding appointment count. The same is applicable for month view in Vertical View.
* Support for dragging and dropping external items to and fro the Scheduler control has been added. 
* The recurrence appointments are now indicated with an icon depicting that it belongs to recurrence type.
* Appointment resizing has been enhanced with live effect of previewing the old and new appointment time. 
* Up and Down arrow indication support has been added to depict the particular day contains more appointments either upwards/downwards.
* The lengthier appointments are now indicated with a left/right arrow indication when it’s time exceeds/precedes the current week/month.

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejschedule-bug-fixes}

* \#146903 - Priority option now applies properly for the all-day appointments.
* \#146651 - Date navigation works properly now while refreshing the Scheduler.
* \#146458 - Schedule performance is improved for loading appointments of more number of resources.
* \#146354, \#146356, \#146653 - Issue with display of Appointment summary in Scheduler is resolved now.
* \#146020 - Issue with editing single occurrence of the recurrence appointment not getting reflected on the databased is fixed.
* \#146176 - Horizontal resource grouping is rendering properly.
* \#146000 - The date content in the quick window can be now customized using `cellClick` event.
* \#145650 - Appointments are rendering properly in accordance with the Daylight saving time of the respective time zones.
* \#148668 - Long duration appointments are rendering properly in workWeek view while setting `firstDayOfWeek` option.
* \#148671 - New event `keyDown` has been added to handle the keyboard actions.
* \#148374 - New public method `getSlotByElement` has been added to access data(resources, date and time) of appropriate cells.
* \#148329 - Schedule no more crashes on setting empty dataSource.
* \#147770 - Appointments are displaying properly while navigating from month view to day view through overflow icon.
* \#147638 - Schedule renders properly while collapsing the resource group in timeline view.
* \#147636 - Recurrence appointments are rendering properly in month view with yearly repeat mode.
* \#147593 - Localized day names in short form are displaying correctly for all the cultures.
* \#147486 - Scheduler is now able to print all the resources in timeline view.
* \#147320, \#148005 - Appointment height is updating properly while setting through template in horizontal week view.
* \#146230 - Script error has been fixed while opening the custom appointment window in timeline view.
* \#144467 - Recurrence rule of the appointments are updating properly now with the custom appointment window.
* \#145909 - Issue with appointment ID not incrementing properly while creating more than one appointments through public `saveAppointment` method has been fixed.
* \#144956 - Appointment drag and drop functionality works properly now.
* \#145793 - Issue with an additional day added to the date range in agenda view has been fixed.
* \#145346 - When the first day of week is changed, current date is highlighted correctly.
* \#144467 - No duplicate appointments are created while dragging and dropping the multi-split recurrence appointment.
* \#144961 - Issue with initial date navigation in custom view with dates less than 7 has been fixed.
* \#143705 - The Datepicker in Scheduler no more collapses while using `cssClass` property.
* \#147609 - The mapper field `groupId` within `resources` API can now be mapped with any user-given names.
* \#148810 - Appointments are deleting properly now while using batch URL.
* \#148086 - All-day appointments with Start and End time values passed with string data type renders properly now.
* \#148175 - Schedule control is rendering properly now when placed within Tab control.
* \#147638, \#148436 - Scheduler performance has been improved as a whole and especially in timeline view.
* \#145073 - `minDate` and `maxDate` are applied properly now at initial execution.

### Breaking Changes
{:#ejschedule-breaking-changes}

* The `showTimeScale` property name has been deprecated and instead the `enable` option available within *timeScale* is suggested to show/hide the time Scales.
* The events namely `appointmentSaved`, `appointmentEdited` and `appointmentDeleted` has been deprecated and now comes with the new names `beforeAppointmentCreate`, `beforeAppointmentChange` and `beforeAppointmentRemove` respectively.
* To show/hide the Previous and Next Appointment navigators in Scheduler, it’s been newly suggested to go with the `showAppointmentNavigator` API instead of `enableAppointmentNavigation` which is deprecated.
* The `allowDragDrop` property has also been deprecated in this release and comes with a standard name `allowDragAndDrop` to cope with the standard naming convention.* The `allowDragDrop` property has also been deprecated in this release and comes with a standard name `allowDragAndDrop` to cope with the standard naming convention.* The `allowDragDrop` property has also been deprecated in this release and comes with a standard name `allowDragAndDrop` to cope with the standard naming convention.



<table>
<tr>
<td>
Member Type<br/><br/></td><td>
Old API Name<br/><br/></td><td>
New API  Name<br/><br/></td><td>
Comments<br/><br/></td></tr>
<tr>
<td>
Properties<br/><br/></td><td>
showTimeScale<br/><br/></td><td>
timeScale: { enable: true }<br/><br/></td><td>
Instead of showTimeScale, <br/> enable option can be used.<br/><br/></td></tr>
<tr>
<td>
<br/><br/></td><td>
enableAppointmentNavigation<br/><br/></td><td>
showAppointmentNavigator<br/><br/></td><td>
Renamed as per naming convention. <br/><br/></td></tr>
<tr>
<td>
<br/><br/></td><td>
allowDragDrop<br/><br/></td><td>
allowDragAndDrop<br/><br/></td><td>
Renamed as per naming convention.<br/><br/></td></tr>
<tr>
<td>
Events<br/><br/></td><td>
appointmentSaved<br/><br/></td><td>
beforeAppointmentCreate<br/><br/></td><td>
Renamed as per naming convention.<br/><br/></td></tr>
<tr>
<td>
<br/><br/></td><td>
appointmentEdited<br/><br/></td><td>
beforeAppointmentChange<br/><br/></td><td>
Renamed as per naming convention.<br/><br/></td></tr>
<tr>
<td>
<br/><br/></td><td>
appointmentDeleted<br/><br/></td><td>
beforeAppointmentRemove<br/><br/></td><td>
Renamed as per naming convention.<br/><br/></td></tr>
</table>

## ejSplitter

### Features
{:#ejsplitter-features}

* \#136222, #146088 – ‘collapsible’ API will hide/show for the particular pane only.

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejsplitter-bug-fixes}

*	\#144732 - Moving the splitter very close causes scrollbar partially visible issue has been resolved.
*	\#144732 - Pane properties in a Splitter sample is now standardized.

### Breaking Changes

<table>
<tr>
<td>
Member Type<br/><br/></td><td>
Old API Name<br/><br/></td><td>
New API  Name<br/><br/></td><td>
Comments<br/><br/></td></tr>
<tr>
<td>
Properties<br/><br/></td><td>
enableAutoResize <br/><br/></td><td>
isResponsive  <br/><br/></td><td>
Instead of enableAutoResize, <br/> isResponsive API can be used.<br/><br/></td></tr>
</table>




## ejSpreadsheet

### Features
{:#ejspreadsheet-features}

* Provided support for Virtualization.
* Provided support for Lock cells.
* Provided support for Password protection.
* Provided support for Cell types.
## ejTab

### Features
{:#ejtab-features}

* \#146560 - ‘hiddenItemIndex’ API is added in Tab control to hide the tab item by index .

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejtab-bug-fixes}

* \#144797 - Flag and country information is now displayed properly in Tab’s images sample.

## ejTileView

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejtileview-bug-fixes}

*	\#147860 - Click the tile more than twice in order to make it respond issue has been resolved.
 
### Features
{:#ejtileview-features}

*	\#F119938 – TileView layout can be customized now.


## ejToolbar

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejtoolbar-bug-fixes}

* \#145979 - Toolbar items selected state will not maintain after it gets disabled issue is resolved now

## ejTreeGrid

### Features
{:#ejtreegrid-features}

* \#143274 -Performance has been improved while rendering large data in collapsed state.  
* \#137255, \#138371, \#139356, \#143503, \#144557, \#144625 - Support for custom column header has been provided.
* \#141000 - Support for custom sub-context menu item has been provided.
* \#139356, \#141368, \#145247, \#147299, \#148240 - Support for freezing columns has been provided.
* \#147639, \#148244 - Support to trigger rowSelected event, when a row is selected on mouse right click, has been provided.

### Bug fixes
{:#ejtreegrid-bug-fixes}

* \#148688 - Issue in filtering when TreeGrid field name contains underscore(_) has been resolved.
* \#147637 - Issue with TreeGrid dropdown data displaying value field instead of text field has been resolved.
* \#147476 - Column chooser issue while rendering Grid and TreeGrid in same page has been fixed.
* \#147457 - Issue while adding a new row has been fixed.
* \#146179 - Issue with rendering special character in TreeGrid has been resolved.
* \#144714 - Sample caption issue in details template sample has been resolved.
* \#142457 - Issue in refreshing a row which is not in view in virtualization mode has been fixed.
* \#142432, \#141688 - Issue while doing cell edit with out edit icon in toolbar has been fixed.
* \#142491 - Issue in TreeGrid scroller while zooming the browser has been fixed.
* \#142334 - Drag tooltip issue in multiple TreeGrid has been fixed.
	 
### Breaking changes
{:#ejtreegrid-breaking-changes}

* The default value for [`enableResize`](http://help.syncfusion.com/js/api/ejtreegrid#members:enableresize) property has been changed to true.
* Now, you can get the child items using the `childRecords` option in the parent record. The option (with the same name given in the `childMapping` property), which you were using to get the child items from the parent record, has been removed now due to duplicate properties, you can use `childRecords` property instead.
## ejTreeMap

### Bug fixes
{:#ejtreemap-bug-fixes}

* \#144725 - Crash issue occurring when giving non-numerical inputs to `groupPadding` value of treemap levels has been fixed.
## ejTreeView

### Features
{:#ejtreeview-features}

* \#126250 - Now two way binding support has been provided to add, move, rename and delete the nodes in TreeView

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejtreeview-bug-fixes}

* \#148839 – Now loading image will not show, after trying to expanding the parent node which has no sub node in TreeView


## Predictive Analytics

### Features
{:#predictive-analytics-features}

* Added support to apply built-in and define functions under Transformation dictionary.

* Added support for PMML files generated by IBM SPSS for the following models:

* C-R Tree 
* QUEST
* CHAID
* Linear Regression
* Neural Net
* C5.0
* Logistic Regression
* Apriori
* Genlin 
* SVM
* K-Means 
* Kohonen
* GLMM 
* Decision List 
* Cox 
* Sequence
* Carma 

## ejUploadbox

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejuploadbox-bug-fixes}

* \#148698 - Selecting the same file, after canceling the event is working fine now.
* \#147914 - Need to fetch XHR object externally has been done.

