---
title 		: Essential Studio for JavaScript 2015 Vol 4 Service Pack 2 Release Notes
description : Essential Studio for JavaScript 2015 Vol 4 Service Pack 2 Release Notes
platform 	: js
---

# Essential Studio for JavaScript Release Notes

{% include release-info.html date="March 4, 2016" version="v13.4.0.63" %} 




## Common

### Features
{:#common-features}

* Bower support to Syncfusion JavaScript widgets was introduced for effective use of JavaScript widgets.


## ejChart

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejchart-bug-fixes}

* \#150628 -  Marker for radar chart is now visible on redraw.

## ejCircularGauge

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejcirculargauge-bug-fixes}

* \#150339 -  Fixed the exception, while setting "showLabels" to false in scales.

## ejGantt

### Bug fixes
{:#ejgantt-bug-fixes}

* \#150568 : Now the task bars color is applied properly when you set the color for a task bar in [`queryTaskbarInfo`](http://help.syncfusion.com/js/api/ejgantt#events:querytaskbarinfo) event, after disabling the `showTaskNames` property dynamically.
* \#150396 : Issue in rendering Gantt with self-referential data source while setting [`predecessorMapping`](http://help.syncfusion.com/js/api/ejgantt#members:predecessormapping) value as null or empty string has been fixed.
* \#150640 : Issue with date calculation while providing date time in 24 hours format has been fixed.
* \#150358 : Issue while rendering Gantt without horizontal scroll bar in chart section has been fixed
* \#150188 : Now in add dialog, options for baseline start date and baseline end date fields will not appear, after disabling the [`renderBaseline`](http://help.syncfusion.com/js/api/ejgantt#members:renderbaseline) property dynamically.
* \#151189 : Issue with rendering Gantt while disabling [`showProgressStatus`](http://help.syncfusion.com/js/api/ejgantt#members:showprogressstatus) property, has been fixed.

## ejGrid

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejgrid-bug-fixes}

* \#150270 - Now ~groupDropArea text will not be selected in firefox when perform keyboard interaction.
* \#151677 - ~detailsTemplate will be render even the ~detailsDataBound property is not set.
* \#148009 - Missing keys has been included in ~ej.localetext.en-US file.
* \#149518 - Grid filters the first value only in suggestion list while performing the custom ~filtering operation to the foreignkey column in ~Excel filter without selecting any of the suggestions issue has been fixed.
* \#151259 - Now, we can define ~stackedHeaderRows and ~queryCellInfo event parameters in TypeScript Grid.
* \#151042,#151507 - Exporting is working fine when we enable the ~stackedHeader in JavaScript Platform.
* \#151220 - Responsive Grid content will not misalign after ~filtering the column.
* \#151041 - ~template column rendering properly when ~ungrouping a column.
* \#150659 - ~scrollSettings.scrollOneStepBy property is working when defining in AngularJS.
* \#150544 - Column ~resize icon implies left border of the table issue has been fixed.
* \#150335 - ~detailsTemplate is compiled in AngularJS.
* \#150335 - ~template column becomes blank upon editing and saving a record issue has been fixed.
* \#150149 - Now in window resizing the header cell value is not encoded.
* \#150268 - Now, grid focus is maintain in IE.
* \#151680 - Date ~format issue has been fixed.

### Breaking Changes
{:#grid-breaking-changes}

* In ejGrid, the properties templateID and isUnbound has been deprecated.


## ejPdfViewer

### Features
{:#ejpdfviewer-features}

* Support for navigating to web links is added to the PDF viewer.
## ejRibbon

### Features
{:#ejribbon-features}

* \#146109 - Defaults settings has been provided commonly to the button controls.

### Breaking changes
{:#ejribbon-breaking-changes}

* `allowResizing` property has been deprecated, instead `isResponsive` property has been introduced
## ejSchedule

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejschedule-bug-fixes}

* \#150110 - Issue with Scheduler work area not clipped properly, while printing in month view has been fixed.
* \#150680 - Appointments and tooltip are rendering properly now with Italian culture.
* \#150468 - Performance is enhanced, while resizing the schedule.
* \#150467 - Appointments are rendering correctly with equal spaces between them.
* \#150305, \#150306 - Appointments are rendering properly when created with monthly recurrence series.
## ejSpreadsheet

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejspreadsheet-bug-fixes}

* \#150334 - Issue with edited cell values update in rangeSettings data source is fixed.
* \#150238 - Issue with conditional formatting in empty cell is fixed.
* \#150238 - Provided support for conditional formatting with formulas.
* \#150334 - Provided support for enable/disable ribbon items option in Spreadsheet.
* \#150214, \#150699 - Provided support for custom formulas in Spreadsheet.
