---
title 		: Essential Studio for JavaScript 2016 Volume 4 Service Pack 1 Release Notes
description : Essential Studio for JavaScript 2016 Volume 4 Service Pack 1 Release Notes
platform 	: js
---

# Essential Studio for JavaScript Release Notes

{% include release-info.html date=site.releasedate.2016_vol_4_sp1 version=site.version.2016_vol_4_sp1 %} 



## Common

### Features
{:#common-features}

* \#168424 - Provided the EJ appearance to text area element by adding “e-textarea” class to it

* Provided the EJ appearance like watermark text for “e-textbox” class.    

### Bug Fixes
{:#common-bug-fixes}

* \#169040 – Script error has been solved while destroying our EJ components using the same control’s event.


## ejBarcode

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejbarcode-bug-fixes}

* \#164367-Increased the rendering quality of 1D barcodes



## ejCalculate

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejcalculate-bug-fixes}

* \#166894 - Dependent formula cells are now properly updated when value of the precedent cells are changed.

## ejChart

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejchart-bug-fixes}
 
* \#168427 - Chart is now updating properly if the data source is set through set model.
* \#167346 - Chart is animating properly along with transit.js file.
* \#166594 - Chart is animating properly when we switch from other series types to initial series type.

## ejDataManager

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejdatamanager-bug-fixes}

* \#167453 - The issue "Sorting is not working properly in datamanager with paging option" has been fixed.
* \#167550 - When the filtering field set with the "single quotation" in the Grid, script error is thrown has been rectified in the RTE.


## ejDiagram

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejdiagram-bug-fixes}
 
* \#168698 - Exception raised while connecting BPMN DataObject shape to any other shapes is fixed.
* \#167789 - Delay arguments are is now working properly in `autoScrollChange` event.
* \#168207 - Node's `gradient` is now appears properly while show/hide the overview.
* \#127489 - BPMN shapes in symbol palette not scaled properly is fixed.
* \#167666 - Labels textbox size keep on increasing with every key press in firefox browser is fixed.
  
## ejDialog

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejdialog-bug-fixes}

* \#167682 - Script error on resizing page having Dialog have been resolved.
## ejDropDownList

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejdropdownlist-bug-fixes}

* \#168755 - The issue "Dropdownlist check box change event arg value was not maintained" has been resolved.


## ejFileExplorer

### Bug Fixes	
{:#ejfileexplorer-bug-fixes}

* \#169456 - Ordering the files using size option does not work issue has been fixed. 

## ejGantt

### Features
{:#ejgantt-features}
* \#167672 – Now it is possible to set the position of the newly added row using the `editSettings.rowPosition` property.
* \#166335, #168662 – Now it is possible to update the resource collection at run time.  

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejgantt-bug-fixes}

* \#168361 – Issue with localizing the predecessor type texts in add/edit dialogs has been fixed.
## ejGrid

### Features
{:#ejgrid-features}

*  \#165890,\#167531, \#168025 - Provided deselection events support for row, cell and column. 


### Bug Fixes
{:#ejgrid-bug-fixes}

*  \#167531 - Selected records value is updated properly after `Searching` the Grid.  
*  \#168818-  Grid works fine while select rows through `selectRows` method with empty `dataSource`. 
*  \#168162 - In Batch editing, dropdown values updated properly after cell save. 
*  \#167695 - Top border shown in filter menu dialog when `frozenRows` and `frozenColumns` specified.
*  \#166542 - Hidden Grid width now resets when resizing browser window.
*  \#168042 - Batch editing works fine when we enable `allowTextWrap` with long text.
*  \#167074 - `Tooltip` working properly with `allowVirtualScrolling` property .
*  \#167022 - `Searching` works fine before initial data binding request gets complete. 
*  \#168502 - Grid works fine when we click command buttons in `batch` editing.
*  \#159390,\#160787, \#166542 - Columns displayed properly when column width is not specified while rendering the Grid with in tab control.
*  \#168502 - Now, Editing works fine while binding complex data.
*  \#159701 - `DatePicker` format applied properly for filter menu with empty `dataSource`.
*  \#166542 - Grid displays properly when we enable `allowScrolling` and `allowResizing` property.
*  \#166542 - The persistence Grid behaves responsive when browser window resized below/above `minWidth`.
*  \#167418 - Grid rendered properly while bind `dataSource` as offline with `Searching` and initial `Grouping` enabled. 

## ejListBox

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejlistbox-bug-fixes}

* \#168189 - Issue with updating model value for ListBox on checkAll() and uncheckAll() methods have been fixed.
## ejListView

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejlistview-bug-fixes}

* \#168972 - Issue with setting empty datasource from set model has been fixed
## ejMaskEdit

### Bug Fixes	
{:#ejmaskedit-bug-fixes}

* \#168040 – MaskEdit control throws scripts error while perform cut operation issue has been fixed.

* \#168104 – While change the value in MaskEdit, change event did not triggered properly in mobile devices issue has been fixed.

## ejNavigationDrawer

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejnavigationdrawer-bug-fixes}

* \#167591 - Issue with destroying NavigationDrawer has been fixed.
## ejPdfViewer

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejpdfviewer-bug-fixes}

* \#165666 - Text elements are rendering properly while exporting the PDF document pages as images.
* \#166120 - Images are rendering properly in a PDF document.
* \#168409 - Horizontal scroll bar will be disabled whenever the width of the PDF document page is smaller than the width of the ejPdfViewer control.
* \#165087 – Form field textbox borders are aligned properly on loading the PDF document containing form fields in ejPdfViewer control.
* \#168244 - Memory consumption was optimized in loading the PDF document as stream in ejPdfViewer control.


## ejPivotChart

### Bug fixes	
{:#ejpivotchart-bug-fixes}

* \#127719 - Issue with PivotChart not getting displayed properly while applying certain culture (nl-NL) has been fixed.
* \#168124 - Issue with custom object data not got properly while performing drill operation in PivotChart has been fixed.

### Features
{:#ejpivotchart-features}

* \#166395, #166392, #167266, #169164 - Provided API to enable/disable scrollbar in PivotChart.
## ejPivotClient

### Features
{:#ejpivotclient-features}

* \#166401, #167266 - Drill through support for PivotClient control has been implemented.
* \#166397, #167266 - Provided support to update, delete and rename the report collections in PivotClient.
* \#166398, #167266 - Provided API to enable/disable toolbar icons in PivotClient.
* \#131159, #143563, #167266, #166402, #162254 - Provided search option for Member Editor in PivotClient.

### Bug fixes	
{:#ejpivotclient-bug-fixes}

* \#165734 - Provided custom object as separate parameter for all functional methods in PivotClient.

## ejPivotGrid

### Bug fixes	
{:#ejpivotgrid-bug-fixes}

* \#168566 - Provided trigger event while perform button drag and drop operation in PivotGrid.
* \#168035 - Issue in controls width getting exceeded when applying column re-sizing in PivotGrid has been fixed.
* \#166884 - Issue with values get differed when using "de-DE" localization in PivotGrid has been fixed.
* \#167728 - Issue in row aggregation with empty or 0.00 values shows NaN.00 in PivotGrid has now been fixed.
* \#167507, #167730 - Issue with script error occurred while PivotGrid runs with negative data values using calculated field has been fixed.

### Features
{:#ejpivotgrid-features}

* \#166638, #167483 - Provided support to add custom data before performing exporting operation in PivotGrid.
* \#166401, #167266 - UI for drill-through feature has been re-vamped.
* \#166400, #167266 - Appearance of filtering option in slicer axis has been re-vamped.
* \#168035 - Provided column re-sizing support for excel-like layout in PivotGrid.
* \#131159, #143563, #167266, #166402, #162254 - Provided search option for Member Editor in PivotGrid.
## ejReportViewer

### Features
{:#ejreportviewer-features}

* \#168197 – Provided the DataSource Credential option for SubReport in WebAPI Controller.

### Bug Fixes	
{:#ejreportviewer-bug-fixes}

* \#168157 - Resolved the exception, when we use two radial pointers in Gauge report item with IIF expression.
* \#168154 - Now, the DataBar and Sparkline charts are working fine when exported to PDF.
* \#167813 - Now, the background color is displayed properly in print preview window.
* \#163906 - Now, the chart series color is applied properly when custom palette color is used.

## ejRibbon

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejribbon-bug-fixes}


* \#167011 - `addTabGroupContent` is working after adding new tab group content with already existed index. 
* \#168001 - Expand collapse behavior is working when tab used inside of backstage.
* \#168019 - Backstage page rendering issue is resolved with unobtrusive mode.
* \#167251 - Adaptive was working after removing application tab using `removeApplicationTab` method.  


## ejRTE

### Bug Fixes

{:#ejrte-bug-fixes}

* \#166352 - The issue "change event doesn't trigger while paste the content in RTE" has been fixed.


## ejSchedule

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejschedule-bug-fixes}

* \#168808 - Appointments are correctly loading in IE browser.
* \#168919 - Appointments in Agenda view are sorted based on date and time.
* \#168394 - Touch event will not trigger now, while clicking and holding an appointment's right border without resize cursor.
* \#167641 - Time in the cloned appointment is updating correctly, while dragging in high resolution machine.
* \#168636 - Long day appointments are rendering correctly now.
* \#168309 - Appointment end time is calculated correctly.
* \#168061 - Month cell(s) height is increasing correctly, while adding more number of appointments to a single cell.
* \#168098 - Unwanted rendering of vertical scroller spaces in month view is prevented.
* \#168033 - `ownerId` parameter is added in `beforeAppointmentChange` event.
* \#167844 - Unwanted rendering of extra row at the bottom is prevented, when `showHeaderBar` is set to false.
* \#167660 - Long day recurrence appointment is creating correctly.
* \#167275 - `queryCellInfo` event is triggering correctly, while navigating the week ranges.
* \#167129 - Month is displaying correctly, while navigating through arrows.
* \#163576 - Cell end time is calculating correctly, when `timeScale` feature is enabled.
* \#167053, \#166891 - Appointment width is updated properly while using workcells template.
* \#166805 - Schedule is aligned properly and the appointment will not disappear now in Firefox and IE browser.


## ejScroller

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejscroller-bug-fixes}
 
* \#167107 - Zoom in & zoom out operation can be performed in Scroller content.
* \#166542 - Dynamically applied `height` and `width` now set to Scroller properly.



## ejSpreadsheet

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejspreadsheet-bug-fixes}

* \#168555 - Issue with the formatting of grid when it is in Spreadsheet backstage is fixed.
* \#168693 - Issue with copy Sheet is not working after import is fixed.
* \#168093 - Issue with saving Spreadsheet as JSON which contains cell type(checkbox) is fixed.
* \#167227 - Issue with Spreadsheet gets unresponsive when script loaded before CSS is fixed.
* \#167663 - Issue with cell type checkbox is not maintained after scrolling is fixed.
* \#167663 - Issue with duplicate object in cell types collection after scrolling is fixed.
* \#166894 - Issue with referenced formula having another cell references are not re-calculated while updating cell value is fixed.
* \#168688 - Provided event for sheet rename and move sheet.
* \#168343 - Provided options to prevent alert dialogs.
* \#167734 - Provided undo redo support for custom operations.
* \#167734 - Provided event for refresh Spreadsheet.
* \#167077 - Provided options for getting chart ID.
* \#166544 - Provided support to drag fill formula for absolute and mixed cell references.
* \#169056 - Provided API for getting cell address in Spreadsheet.
## ejTextboxes

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejtextboxes-bug-fixes}

* \#167799 – In Edge browser, Not able to use the arrow keys to move inside the ejPercentageTextbox issue has been fixed.
## ejToolbar

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejtoolbar-bug-fixes}

* \#167348 - The issue "Console error occurs when setting dataSource after initialization" has been fixed.


## ejTreeGrid

### Features
{:#ejtreegrid-features}

* \#166951- The load time performance in rendering large data has been improved.

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejtreegrid-bug-fixes}

* \#169042 – Issue with cancelling the `rowSelecting` event has been fixed.
* \#167332 – Now in row editing mode, the cell which is being clicked will get focused, instead of first cell of the row.
* \#167863 – Issue with tooltip not rendering when displaying ejTreeGrid within ejDialog has been fixed. 




## ejTreeView

### Features
{:#ejtreeview-features}

* \#168997 - Provided the option to check multiple nodes via “checkNode” public method in TreeView.

### Bug Fixes	
{:#ejtreeview-bug-fixes}

* \#168328 - TreeView control throws error whenever drag and drop or insert new node while binding empty data source to TreeView at initial time issue has been fixed.

## Predictive Analytics

### Features
{:#predictive-analytics-features}

* \#167299 - Added support to provide `localization` information using `CultureInfo` property in the `PMMLEvaluator` class.
