---
title 		: Essential Studio for JavaScript 2016 Vol 2 (Service Pack 2) Release Notes
description : Essential Studio for JavaScript 2016 Vol 2 (Service Pack 2) Release Notes
platform 	: js
---

# Essential Studio for JavaScript Release Notes

{% include release-info.html date=site.2016vol2_sp2_releasedate version="v14.2.0.32" %} 



## Autocomplete

### Bug Fixes
{:#autocomplete-bug-fixes}

* \#159833 - Autocomplete performance in devices has been improved.
## Dialog

### Bug Fixes
{:#dialog-bug-fixes}

* \#161956 - Issue with Dialog on calling close and open methods continuously has been fixed.
## ejAccordion

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejaccordion-bug-fixes}

* \#159368 – The border color of the Button control will be maintained properly even after it render in Accordion control.

## ejChart

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejchart-bug-fixes}

* \#162439 - Axis font style will not change while scrolling the chart.
* \#162004 - Last label will not hide while rendering in mobile, when the `labelPlacement` is `betweenTicks` .
* \#161632, \#161794 - Zooming is now working properly on canvas mode.
* \#160593 - Stacking Area is now rendering properly, when it has null value.

 

 

## ejDiagram

### Bug fixes
{:#ejdiagram-bug-fixes}

* \#162135 - SizeChange event now return proper old and new values of the node.
* \#161705 - support to update overview width and height at runtime is added.
* \#161593 - Z-order commands now working properly with HTML node.
* \#161509 - Rotating HTML node is working properly now, after saving and loading.
* \#161346,\#161347,\#162681 - While exporting the diagram into SVG format, labels are rendered properly now.
* \#161002 - Performance has been improved now, while adding more nodes in a group.
## ejDropDownList

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejdropdownlist-bug-fixes}

* \#161706, \#162490 - When the DropDownList is rendered with the visual mode property, the text box won’t be
hidden even the data of DropDownList bounded dynamically.
* \#158152 – When the DropDownList is destroyed, the window events will be unbounded. 
* \#161162 – The issue, “When the DropDownList is rendered by “ID” selector in AngularJS using “ng-repeat-template” has been fixed.  


## ejGantt

### Features
{:#ejgantt-features}

* \# 161981 - Support for new client side event `actionBegin` has been implemented, which will be triggered while adding a new row to Gantt.
## ejGrid

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejgrid-bug-fixes}

* \#125364 - Sorting is not working for `ODataV4Adaptor` with expand query.
* \#156837,\#158906- Template element is not refreshed when loading the data through jQuery options/scope in AngularJS.
* \#157062 - Equal filtering is not working for Date column in excel filtering with `ODataV4Adaptor`.
* \#157778, \#157844 - Need to hide the waiting-pop up and show "No records to display" in the grid when the server has some failure.
* \#158875 - Validation message is not shown while adding.
* \#159512 - Command button not render properly when command columns have same `headerText` and different button type.
* \#160511 - DataStructure has been changed while perform editing in normal mode (Complex Data).
* \#160669 - After scrolling the header columns and the data columns are not aligned properly.
* \#160669 - Filter icon still is very close to the header text in `columns` while using `rtl`.
* \#160695 - Date column not filter the date when the operator is `equal`.
* \#160759 - `excelFilter` dialog shows the unchecked data while using `excel` and `menu` filter.
* \#160779 - Script error throws when `reordering` the empty data.
* \#160799, \#160621, \#161164 - Two way binding is not working for AngularJS component after binding model to the plugin.
* \#161028 - Manually entering data in DatePicker control is not saved in `batch` edit Mode.
* \#161138 - `SearchSettings` equal operator returns the contains operator result.
* \#161166 - Grid doesn't fit to browser width when `resizing` the browser window.
* \#162019 - First column is hiding when continuously scrolling the horizontal scroll bar.
* \#162358 - Horizontal scrollbar overrides the Grid content when grid content is larger than scroller width.
* \#162374 - Destroying grid within hidden element throws script error. 
## ejKanban

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejkanban-bug-fixes}

* \#161248 - Kanban form submit drop down list is returning value properly.
* \#160506 - Kanban column collapse is working after adding card through `addCard` and `updateCard` method.
* \#160582 - Priority drag and drop issue with Remote data in SignalR devices is fixed.


## ejMaskEdit

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejmaskedit-bug-fixes}

* \#162536 - Now We can get the Key code value in the "key" events of the MaskEdit control.

## ejPdfViewer

### Features
{:#ejpdfviewer-features}

* \#149793 - Support for saving the PDF document in ejPdfViewer has been added.
## ejPivotChart

### Bug fixes
{:#ejpivotchart-bug-fixes}

* \#162014 - `customObject` parameter missing during drill up/down operation has been fixed.
## ejPivotGrid

### Bug fixes
{:#ejpivotgrid-bug-fixes}

* \#162527 - Disabled auto-sorting in PivotGrid control (Relational DB).
## ejRadioButton

### Bug fixes
{:#ejradiobutton-bug-fixes}

* \#152840 - Provided the two-way binding support for group of radio button controls.
## ejRibbon

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejribbon-bug-fixes}

* \#161867 -`selectedItemIndex` property working properly after new tab added using `addTab` method.
* \#160602 - Pin the Ribbon behavior is working in touch devices.

## ejRTE

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejrte-bug-fixes}

* \#161033 – When the table is copied from the Word document to the RTE’s content area, the support for table column resizing with the mouse has been given.
* \#162486 – The Grid and RichTextEditor controls can be rendered in the Dialog control.

## ejSchedule

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejschedule-bug-fixes}

* \#161092 – Appointment recurrence rule is updating correctly, as per the values passed to the `recurrenceExDate` field.
* \#160403 - Multiple instances of the recurrence editor can be rendered properly on the same page.
* \#160704 – Dropdown and Datepicker fields within the recurrence editor are working correctly in the Firefox versions 46 and 47.
* \#160436 – All the appointments that lies within the selected date range are getting displayed correctly in Agenda view.
* \#154801, \#160276, \#160770 - Schedule is rendering properly, when the `firstDayOfWeek` property is used in different cultures.

## ejSpreadsheet

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejspreadsheet-bug-fixes}

* \#160108 - Issue with named range having entire row & column references on exporting is fixed.
* \#161152 - Issue with contextmenu while page has multiple spreadsheet is fixed and extra arguments added in actionComplete event.
## ejTextboxes

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejtextboxes-bug-fixes}

* /#147187 - Now watermark text of the Textbox has been changed as per the applied locale.

## ejTimePicker

### Bug fixes
{:#ejtimepicker-bug-fixes}

* \#161920 - TimePicker text box value misbehaves in Firebox/IE browsers when enter the value after select and delete all characters - fixed.
## ejUploadbox

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejuploadbox-bug-fixes}

* \#161162 – The issue, “Subsequent uploading of files using UploadBox control” has been rectified. 


## General

### Bug Fixes
{:#common-bug-fixes}

* \#160621 - In AngularJS, model can provide directly and also it can configure for individual properties .
* \#160799, \#160621, \#161164 - Two way binding is now working for AngularJS component after binding model to the plugin.

## ListView

### Bug Fixes
{:#listview-bug-fixes}

* \#162232 - Issue on setting custom attribute to ListView items have been fixed
## NavigationDrawer

### Bug Fixes
{:#navigationdrawer-bug-fixes}

* \#160116 - Issue with rendering other controls in NavigationDrawer pane have been fixed.
## Predictive Analytics

### Features
{:#predictive-analytics-features}

* \#160092 - Added support for K-Nearest Neighbors model.

## Splitter

### Bug Fixes
{:#splitter-bug-fixes}

* \#160632 - Issue with Splitter behavior on changing splitter bar size has been fixed.
