---
title: Essential Studio for JavaScript  2016 Volume 2   Release Notes  
description: Essential Studio for JavaScript  2016 Volume 2   Release Notes  
platform: js
documentation: ug
---

# Essential Studio for JavaScript  Release Notes  

{% include release-info.html date="June 24, 2016"  version="v14.2.0.26" %} 




## Common

### Features
{:#common-features}

* Syncfusion JavaScript widget’s now seamlessly supports [Aurelia](http://aurelia.io/) client Framework.

* The print library has been implemented which is used to print a page or particular element, so you can use this library with customization like exclude particular element, open in new tab, text and image, and apply external stylesheet.

### Breaking changes
{:#common-breaking-changes}

* From this release (14.2.0.26), Map files shipping has been excluded in source.
* 'Cultures' folder renamed to 'i18n' in the below installed location. `(installed location)\Syncfusion\Essential Studio\14.2.0.26\JavaScript\assets\scripts\`

## ejAutocomplete

### Features
{:#ejautocomplete-features}

* \#1 - Provides support for AutoComplete Multi-Column search. 
* \#2 - Provides support for AutoComplete Reset option

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejautocomplete-bug-fix}

* \#157381 -  AutoComplete Localization not working issue fixed.
* \#156327 -  While performing validation in Delimiter mode, it is not working properly issue fixed.
* \#155469 -  If we set selectValueByKey Knockout binding, it is not working properly issue fixed.


## ejButton

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejbutton-bug-fixes}

* \#156125 – Button control allows HTML tags as button `text`.

## ejCalculate

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejcalculate-bug-fixes}

* \#156466 - LOOKUP formula is now working properly for parsing the strings.
* \#156679, #156466 - INDIRECT formula is now working properly.
* \#153778, #155406	- Formula calculation using Named Range is now working properly.
* \#155263 - Subtotal formula inside Subtotal formula is now properly working.

## ejChart

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejchart-bug-fixes}

* \#154917 - Trendline is now working properly for unsorted x values.
* \#154857 - Now the spline chart will get exported in excel.
* \#154144 - Data label is now clipped when it exceeds the chart area after zooming.
* \#153987 - Spline series is now working when the data is in string and the axis `valueType` is in double.
* \#153723 - Exception on hovering lengthy legend text is fixed.
* \#157383 - Exception on rendering trendline with `valueType` as datetime is fixed.
* \#157377, \#157999 - Stacked Area chart is now rendering properly when point value is zero.
* \#156860 - Now the last label in axis is rendering properly, when the chart size is small.
* \#156777 - Unnecessary browser window scrolling issue is fixed.
* \#156370 - Tooltip `format` is now working properly in IE, when the point has zero in y values.
* \#156427 - Now the X-Axis labels are placed to the middle of the ticklines, when the range of the axis falls in decimal.
* \#156138 - Zooming is now working properly in canvas mode.
* \#155896 - Axis label is now rendering properly after zooming, when `roundingPlaces` is set to the axis.
* \#155425 - Exception on binding `dataSource` to the technical indicators is fixed.





### Features
{:#ejchart-features}

* \#153717 - Provided support to trim the chart title. 
* \#156772 - Provided support for range scrollbar with lazy loading feature.  
* \#153800 - Provided support for cylindrical column. 
* Provided exponential format support in tooltip and data label.


 


 
## ejCircularGauge

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejcirculargauge-bug-fixes}

 * \#157550 -  Animation is now working in android chrome browser of version 4.4+.
 
## ejDatePicker

### Features
{:#ejdatepicker-features}

* \#153678 - A collection of dates can be disabled on the calendar popup.
* \#153739 - Now DatePicker control can parse ISO 8601 date format as an input value.

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejdatepicker-bug-fixes}

* \#158806 - `today` button in calendar can be selected using keyboard navigation.

## ejDateTimePicker

### Features
{:#ejdatetimepicker-features}

* Now DateTimePicker control allows watermark text.

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejdatetimepicker-bug-fixes}

* \#158152 - DateTimePicker control destroyed properly when `destroy()` method called.
## ejDiagram

### Features
{:#ejdiagram-features}

* \#153560 Built-in support for the missing BPMN shapes is provided
* \#131535, \#156702 Support to prevent undo/redo functionality for specific scenario is added
* \#149988, \#150363, \#153020 Organizational chart now supports to arrange the leaf nodes in multiple rows to balance the width and height of the tree
* Built-in support for class diagram shapes is provided
* Support to stretch/align the image or SVG content is provided
* Support to change the opacity of the labels is added
* \#150933 - Image support for user handles has been implemented.
* \#135396, \#I145983, \#150173 - Support to customize the selector style of the diagram is added.
* \#136564 - Support to create/read/update/delete records to the data source at runtime is provided. 

### Bug fixes
{:#ejdiagram-bug-fixes}

* \#149988 – Issue in rendering the layout within the ViewPort when the child count is 5 is fixed.
* \#154239 – Lane’s header font size is updating properly now when changing at runtime.
* \#154621,#154503 - ContextMenu elements are not removed from the document while destroying the diagram is fixed.
* \#154533 - Swimlane is moved beyond the page boundary while performing nudge operation is fixed.
* \#154896,#155448 - After saving the diagram, drag and drop lane into existing swimlane, the lane gets added into the top is fixed.
* \#123659 - Issue in exporting diagram background image in canvas is fixed.
* \#154924 - While selecting multiple elements in the swimlane and perform nudge operation, connectors are now updated properly.
* \#155274 - Exception raised while parsing JSON string to diagram model is fixed.
* \#155513 - Exception raised while selecting multiple nodes using addSelection API method and resizing it is fixed.
* \#153387 - Support for BPMN Flow shapes(SequenceFlow, MessageFlow and AssociationFlow) has been implemented.
* \#142508,\#157003 - When we move the Swimlane contains TextNode, then TextNode remains static is fixed.
* \#154533,\#155091 - Swimlane is moved beyond the page boundary while performing nudge operation is fixed.
* \#154955 - Need to prevent the node from moving it into the swimlane title area is fixed.
* \#155491 - Connector's bridging Performance has been improved.
* \#156311 - Couldn't create connections, while dragging the end thumbs using touch is fixed.
* \#156491 - When we set `scrollLimit` as `diagram` and zoom the diagram, panning is now working properly.
* \#155248 - Issue in exporting the diagram while setting the node’s borderWidth as 0 is fixed.
* \#148687 - Issue in over events after updating the diagram width and height at runtime is fixed.
* \#156994 - Docking of the polygon shape is now working properly at the initial rendering.
* \#158458 - BackgroundImage is now applied properly in AngularJS sample for earlier versions.

### Breaking changes
{:#ejdiagram-breaking-changes}

* Usually Image and Native nodes are stretched to fit the size of the node. The behavior is changed so that the nodes will be stretched without losing the aspect ratio. To enable the existing behavior, Set "stretch" to the scale property of Image and Native node.
* Usually the first segment length of the orthogonal connector will be static. The behavior is changed so that the segment length will be a half of the connector length. To enable existing behavior, Set the desired length to the length property of segment.
## ejDialog

### Features
{:#ejdialog-features}

* Provides support for adding custom action button in Dialog. 
* Provides support for adding footer in Dialog. 

## ejDropDownList

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejdropdownlist-bug-fixes}

* \#155593 – Scope value is updated properly in DropDownList with custom directive.
* \#155523 – Provided the support for `Locale` property in all three platforms to update the text "No suggestions" respect to culture in DropDownList while using enableFilterSearch property.
* \#157134,\#157207 - Provided the support to update the model for value, text, selectedIndex, selectedIndices properties on initial load in the cascaded DropDownList.
* \#157731 - We can set the initial value for DropDownList when using remote datasource.
* \#158201 - Provided support for canceling the `select` event in DropDownList.
* \#157766 - The issue on DropDownList items are not checked when text is same has been fixed.

## ejFileExplorer

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejfileexplorer-bug-fixes}

* \#155542 - Grid view is rendered properly when changing view from portrait to landscape mode in mobile device.
* \#156802 - `create` event is triggered properly in AngularJS - FileExplorer.

## ejGantt

### Features
{:#ejgantt-features}

* \#152733 – Now Gantt can be rendered in read-only mode by enabling `readOnly` option.
* \#154263 – Performance has been improved for rendering large data source with predecessor enabled.
* \#150261 – Now the task labels can be customized with templates and also can be positioned on either side of the taskbar. 
* \#155991 - Now timescale start date can be started from nearest month or year instead of the project start and end date.

### Bug fixes
{:#ejgantt-bug-fixes}

* \#156468- Issue with data type for duration calculation in 24 hours working time scale hour has been fixed.
* \#156412- Issue while using `HH` in date format has been fixed
* \#156415- Issue with expander icon rendering for empty parent record has been fixed.
* \#154812- Issue with hiding search textbox placeholder text while clicking on it in Microsoft Edge browser has been fixed.

### Breaking Changes
{:#ejgantt-breaking-changes}

* Now indent toolbar item will be enabled only on enabling `editSettings.allowIndent` property. The default value of `allowIndent` property is false.
* Now the Gantt column resizing behavior has been changed. In earlier version when we resize a column, all other columns will be adjusted. Now only the current resizing column and the next column alone will be adjusted



## ejGrid

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejgrid-bug-fixes}


*  \#151407 - Drop down edit working fine while using `foreignKey` adaptor. 
*  \#155000, \#156476, \#156478 - Scope value updated in the Model for the EJ components, while using q.all().then() for promises.  
*  \#153095 - Now, default value is set when bind complex data.
*  \#154661 - Alert message is shown when width of frozen columns exceeds width of Grid window.
*  \#153804 - Now the "OK" button in `columnChooser` is disabled, when all the columns are hidden while applying the locale.
*  \#154509 - Grid content is refreshed while editing the Grid.
*  \#154337 - The `scrollOneStepBy` property is included in TypeScript definition file.
*  \#154391 - Now, upper case in pager `tooltip` is working properly.
*  \#153679 - Missed out methods are included in TypeScript.
*  \#151640 - Now, adding the record to Grid after sorting `dateTime` column is working properly.
*  \#152885 - Updating columns through `columns` method is working properly.
*  \#150811 - Performing select method is working fine when binding complex Data.
*  \#153621 - Column chooser is working properly, when the Grid render in AngularJS `ng-view` and navigate to the other page.
*  \#151133 - Now single edit form only shown, even if we click more than one row while using `showAddNewRow` property in ejGrid.
*  \#150913, \#154265 - Frozen columns count maintained while refreshing the page.
*  \#151133 - Selected records displayed while using `showAddNewRow` property in ejGrid.
*  \#155803 - Excel filter is working properly, while more than one time filter the same `dateTime` column in Grid.
*  \#155936 - Dialog form is closed properly, when we call `cancelEdit` function externally.
*  \#153529, \#155038 -  Pager refreshed when binding different data to Grid while set `EnablePersistence` as true.
*  \#155551 - Reordering is working properly, when we set `allowGrouping` as false in `columns` property.
*  \#150913 - All columns shown properly when frozen column is enabled.
*  \#154468 - Provided support to Invalidate local storage.
*  \#153804 - Provided locale support for Context Menu pager.
*  \#153619 - Provided `tooltip` support for header and content separately.
*  \#153338 - Provided built-in support to synchronize server time zone offset.
*  \#153087 - Now, vertical scrollbar is not rendered while `scrollSettings` height set as auto.
*  \#150273, \#154710 -Provided support for `template` field column when `field` is bound to it.
*  \#152715 - Provided support to Grid gains focus, pressing the up/down navigation keys should navigate up or down the Grid records.
*  \#151276 - Provided support for ejGrid `headerText` and `filterbar` CSS properties are show separately when using the ionic Framework.
*  \#149237 - Need to bind foreign key `dataSource` to dropdown list.
*  \#156654 - Persistence is working properly, when we performed grouping operation in initial Grid.
*  \#158033 - Now, `ng-template` columns are rendered properly in Grid, while we tried to hide or show columns.
*  \#157135 - Added the filter icon for the frozen columns when we set `filterSettings` via set model.
*  \#157488 - Now, cursor path is defined as font path in "ej.widgets.core" file.
*  \#157282 - Priority is working properly, when width is not specified in `columns`.
*  \#157381 - Localization is working properly, while we used `autoComplete` in excel Filter.
*  \#157253 - Grid is shown properly when enabled the `frozenRows` and `allowTextWrap`.  
*  \#157173 - `ExportAll` method is working properly in `ejGrid` control.
*  \#156653 - Now, special character are working properly, when enabled the stacked header columns.
*  \#156580 - Command columns is shown, when re-rendering the Grid control.
*  \#156425 - Now, `getFilteredRecords` should be returns empty array while clear the `searching`.
*  \#156402 - Grid is working properly, when we define id with underscore.
*  \#155937 - Header content is align properly, while we set the `dataSource` through set model.
*  \#156336 - `ShowDeleteConfirmDialog` message is shown when delete record through `delete` method.
*  \#156183 - Now,`DataSource` passed to server when spliced from `ignoreOnExport`.
*  \#155593 - Scope value is updated properly in `dropDown` and `datePicker` with custom directive.
*  \#155726 - Keyboard selection is working properly, when enabled the virtual scrolling.
*  \#155808 - Grid is render properly, while using bootstrap file.
*  \#155663 - Online exporting services is working for excel export in Edge browser.
*  \#156013,\#157470 - Now, value will be read properly from the `ejDropdownList` which render the `editTemplate`.


### Breaking Changes
{:#ejgrid-breaking-changes}

*  In Grid, Persisted item in local storage has changed `$ej$+pluginName+id` instead of `pluginName+id`.
*  In Grid, Editing enabled for `template` column by default when field is bound to that column.
*  Now the Grid column resizing behavior has been changed. In earlier version when we resize a column, all other columns will be adjusted. Now only the current resizing column and the next column alone will be adjusted
## ejHeatMap `preview`

The heat map represents tabular data values as gradient colors instead of numbers. Low and high values are different colors with different gradients.

### Features
{:#ejheatmap-features}

* 2 types of data source mapping (TableMapping, CellMapping)
* Color mapping
* Legend
* Virtualization
## ejKanban(Preview)

### Features
{:#ejkanban-features}

* Provided external editing support.
* Provided printing support.
* Provided adaptive support.

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejkanban-bug-fixes}

* \#157229-Drop cards are working properly in collapsed column.
* \#157295,\#156539-Script error has been resolved while setting data source in set model.
* \#157295-Toggle column method is working properly.

### Breaking Changes 
{:#ejkanban-breakingchanges}

* addCard,cancelEdit,deleteCard,endEdit,startEdit,setValidationToField methods are changed as `KanbanEdit.addCard`,`KanbanEdit.cancelEdit`,`KanbanEdit.deleteCard`,`KanbanEdit.endEdit`,
`KanbanEdit.startEdit`,`KanbanEdit.setValidationToField`.


## ejListbox

### Features
{:#ejlistbox-features}

* \#1 - The keyboard navigation behavior of ListBox enhanced as like windows file explorer.

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejlistbox-bug-fix}

* \#150832 -  Empty data displayed in virtual mode issue fixed.



## ejMenu

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejmenu-bug-fixes}

* \#153798 - ContextMenu is destroyed properly in Menu control.
* \#155457 - The issue on menu items are not seen at page end has been fixed.
* \#155870 - The issue occurs on while passing JSON object as parameter for insert, insertAfter and insertBefore methods in ContextMenu and doesn't render menu items with sub menu has been fixed.
## ejNumericTextbox

### Bug fixes
{:#ejnumerictextbox-bug-fixes}

* \#158374 - At initialization, NumericTextbox can be rendered without any api’s.
## ejOlapClient

### Breaking Changes 
{:#ejolapclient-breakingchanges}

* Widget name has been changed from "ejOlapChart" to "ejPivotChart".
* Class name has been changed from "OlapChart" to "PivotChart".
* Namespace has been changed from "Syncfusion.JavaScript.Olap.OlapChart" to "Syncfusion.JavaScript.PivotChart".


## ejPdfViewer

### Features
{:#ejpdfviewer-features}

* Support for responsive rendering has been added.
* Touch support to scroll and magnify the PDF document has been added.
* Print abort functionality has been added.

### Bug fixes
{:#ejpdfviewer-bug-fixes}

* \#150646 - Document is now displayed as expected, instead of blank pages.
* \#155070 - Contents in the PDF document are now rendered as expected.
* \#155070 - `Load` method now works as expected.
* Image in the PDF document is now loaded as expected in ejPdfViewer.
* 'ZoomTo' method now works as expected.
* Content of the PDF document is now rendered properly.
## ejPivotChart

### Features
{:#ejpivotchart-features}

* Provided support for relational data sources.

### Breaking Changes 
{:#ejpivotchart-breakingchanges}

* Widget name has been changed from "ejOlapChart" to "ejPivotChart".
* Class name has been changed from "OlapChart" to "PivotChart".
* Namespace has been changed from "Syncfusion.JavaScript.Olap.OlapChart" to "Syncfusion.JavaScript.PivotChart".
* The following enumerations `ej.olap.OlapChart.ChartTypes`, `ej.olap.OlapChart.ExportOptions` and `ej.olap.OlapChart.SymbolShapes` has been changed to `ej.PivotChart.ChartTypes`, `ej.PivotChart.ExportOptions` and `ej.PivotChart.SymbolShapes` respectively due to control name change.
* The following class has been changed from `ej.olap.OlapChart.Locale` to `ej.PivotChart.Locale` due to control name change.
* The following method has been changed from `exportOlapChart` to `exportPivotChart` due to control name change.



### Bug fixes
{:#ejpivotchart-bug-fixes}

* \#154561 - LabelFormats are now working properly in OlapChart.


## ejPivotGauge

### Features
{:#ejpivotgauge-features}

* Provided support for relational data sources.

### Breaking Changes 
{:#ejpivotgauge-breakingchanges}

* Widget name has been changed from "ejOlapGauge" to "ejPivotGauge".
* Class name has been changed from "OlapGauge" to "PivotGauge".
* Namespace has been changed from "Syncfusion.JavaScript.Olap.OlapGauge" to "Syncfusion.JavaScript.PivotGauge".
* The following class has been changed from `ej.olap.OlapGauge.Locale` to `ej.PivotGauge.Locale` due to control name change.
* The following enumeration has been changed from `ej.olap.OlapGauge.NumberFormat` to `ej.PivotGauge.NumberFormat` due to control name change. 


## ejPivotGrid

### Features
{:#ejpivotgrid-features}

* \#154281, \#157635 - Calculated field support for relational data sources at Client Mode is done.
* \#148735, \#144521 - Cell Selection: Single row or column selection is done. 
* PDF, CSV and Word exporting is now supported at Client Mode. 
* Excel-like filtering and sorting has been provided for OLAP data source at Client Mode.
* Drill through support has been provided. 


### Bug fixes
{:#ejpivotgrid-bug-fixes}

* \#155225 - Inappropriate decimal number format in `es-ES` culture has been resolved.
* \#155794 - Additional button created in row axis while performing drag and drop operation in PivotTable Field List has been fixed.
* \#155225 - Number format is now working properly after applying localization.


## ejPivotTreeMap `Preview`

The PivotTreeMap control lets the user to visualize OLAP data in the form of nested nodes in hierarchical order with the ability to drill up and down. 

### Features
{:#ejpivottreemap-features}

* OLAP data source is supported in both Client and Server Mode.
* Drill up and down capabilities are available.
* Color Mapping: Normal and Range based are supported. 

## ejRangenavigator

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejrangenavigator-bug-fixes}

* \#155009 - Exception on setting range in string is fixed.
 


 
## ejReportViewer

### Features
{:#ejreportviewer-features}

* \#154109 - Provided support to Load Embedded PDF Fonts in ReportViewer.
* \#153858 - Provided the customization option for ReportViewer error block.
* \#152862 - Provided edit Connection string option at Run-time.
* \#147488 - Provided the support for Drilldown action in Excel.
* \#144682 - Provided the support to Store the credential information in embedded resource. 
* \#156181, #156131 - Provided 2016 RDL Schema  support.
* \#147340 - Provided support to export report as PPTX(PowerPoint) document.
* \#118920, #138638, #141386, #144345 – Provided external data source support in ReportViewer.

### Bug Fixes

{:#ejreportviewer-bug-fixes}

* \#151544, #153576 - Now, the code modules working fine without getting assembly reference error in ReportViewer.
* \#154197 - Now, Group Sorting working fine for Tablix report item in ReportViewer.
* \#151661 - Now, fixed Number formatting when export to Excel.
* \#155480 - Drilldown working fine for Detail groups of Tablix.
* \#154781 - Now, the sum expression is working properly with Tablix groups.
* \#151484 - Now, the sum expression is working properly for float data type in ReportViewer.
* \#156701 - Now, Drilldown icons displays in Edge browser
* \#154370 - Now, Rectangle properly displaying in Tablix report item corner cells of ReportViewer.
* \#153930 - The ReportViewer crash has been resolved when using incorrect values in page navigation input box.
* \#155658 - Now, the Tablix report item contents are rendered without overlapping.
* \#156612 - Fixed Tablix Top Border line is not displaying In ReportViewer
* \#151253 - The additional spaces with textbox report item in ReportViewer has been cleared.
* \#154004, #155480 - The Tablix contents rendering fine without text overlapping when performing drilldown action in ReportViewer.
* \#154393 - Now, the page number textbox automatically reset when we give the special characters.
## ejRibbon

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejribbon-bug-fixes}

* \#156980-`addTab` and `addContextualTabs` methods are working with backstage page.
* \#156980-Method provided to remove group content.
* \#156980-Methods are provided for adding,removing and updating backstage page items.
* \#147187-Misalignment issue has been fixed while changing the locale dynamically inside of Tab control.

## ejRotator

### Features
{:#ejrotator-features}

* \#1 - Provides support for rendering template in Rotator. 




## ejRTE

### Bug fixes

{:#ejrte-bug-fixes}

* \#155617 – The issue while right clicking on the RTE for ContextMenu, scrolls to top has been fixed.
* \#157181 - Entering text in RTE via tab key will save text content.
* \#157680 - ScrollBar does not appear on initial load of RTE image browser issue has been fixed.
* \#156402 - When defining id with underscore, script error throws issue has been fixed.
## ejSchedule

### Features
{:#ejschedule-features}

* Provided support to block the particular timeslots in Scheduler.

* PDF Export feature has been enhanced with options to set/change the page settings such as size, margins (left, right, top and bottom), transition, rotate angle and header/footer values.

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejschedule-bug-fixes}

* \#150110 - Issue with Scheduler work area not clipped properly, while printing in month view has been fixed.
* \#150680 - Appointments and tooltip are rendering properly now with Italian culture.
* \#150467 - Appointments are rendering correctly with equal spaces between them.
* \#150305, \#150306 - Appointments are rendering properly when created with monthly recurrence series.
* \#150478 - When the appointment is clicked/dragged, tooltip is hiding properly.
* \#149431 - Dates are populating correctly in edit appointment window.
* \#149296 - cellWidth property is working properly in custom view.
* \#149296 - The custom date range is rendering correctly based on the current date.
* \#152959 - An issue with the improper display of timescale labels, while scrolling down the Scheduler has been fixed.
* \#152958 - An issue with the appointment rendering, while modifying resource dataSource via `setModel` has been fixed.
* \#123393 - An issue with work cell template while using it along with different time slot values has been fixed.
* \#152787 - Appointments with longer duration are now rendering correctly in All-day cell area.
* \#150096 - Edit Appointment window is opening properly in mobile device now, when the appointment is touched.
* \#155718 - Start/End time of the cell(s) are returned correctly in `queryCellInfo` event.
* \#154449 - Scheduler will render properly now, when the empty data source is assigned for resource(s).
## ejScroller

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejscroller-bug-fixes}

* \#156617 - As like browser scrollbar, Essential JavaScript Scroller tracks the mouse movement after mouse down occurs on scrollbar.
* \#157629 - Now vertical scrollbar appears, when content starts to hide behind the horizontal scrollbar in the container.
* \#156736 - Scroll performance enhanced, when scroll the content by mouse move or touch action.

## ejSparkline `Preview`

{:#ejsparkline-feature}

A new Sparkline control has been added to present trends and variations associated with some measurement, such as average temperature or stock market activity, in a simple, light weighted and condensed way.

### Key Features

*	Supports line, column, area, Win-loss and pie type series.
*	Tooltip displays detailed information about the data point. 
*	Markers indicate the value of a point for line, area and column series.
*	Ability to customize first, last, negative, high, and low points. 
*	Range band feature allows to highlight a particular range along y-axis. 


## ejSplitter

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejsplitter-bug-fix}

* \#155788 -  While using bootstrap CSS in Splitter, content is not updated properly issue fixed.
* \#155602 -  Disable Expand Property in Splitter Pane issue fixed.
            

## ejSpreadsheet

### Features
{:#ejspreadsheet-features}

* Provided adaptive Spreadsheet support.
* Provided PDF export support.
* Provided support for freeze panes in virtualization. 
* Provided support for data manager virtualization.


### Bug fixes
{:#ejspreadsheet-bug-fixes}

* \#155333 - Issue with formula after sheet rename is fixed.
* \#155333 – Issue with border in JSON import using loadFromJSON method is fixed.
* \#156435 – Provided support for exporting in 3.5 .NET Framework.
* \#155410 – Provided validation support for formula.
* \#155405 – Provided right alignment support in text overflow.
* \#157202 – Issue in excel export with globalization is fixed. 
* \#157123 – Issue with formula cell is not showing selected range address is fixed.
* \#157197 – Issue with fillType in default autoFillSettings is fixed. 



## ejTab

### Bug fixes

{:#ejtab-bug-fixes}

* \#156851 - Fails to update enabled state if a tab is specified which is already enabled issue has been fixed.
* \#154771 - Tab scroll is working properly while selecting the tab item.
* \#155975 - Now,Tab does not get flickered when enabling the item.
* \#151348 - Improved the Tab control appearance.
* \#157374 - The content has been mapped incorrectly to the corresponding Tab items, if the content order is not sequential. This issue has been fixed.

## ejTimePicker

### Features
{:#ejtimepicker-features}

* \#155524 - TimePicker control allows null as an input value.
* \#153678 - A collection of time values can be disabled on the TimePicker popup.

### Breaking Changes
{:#ejtimepicker-breakingchanges}

* TimePicker value defaults to `minTime` if `enableStrictMode` property is set as true.
## ejTreeGrid

### Features 
{:#ejtreegrid-features}

* \#140688, #141366, #142336 , #153939 - Support for exporting TreeGrid contents to excel has been implemented. 
* \#155640- Support for adding records dynamically with self-referential data source has been implemented.
* \#155576- Support for column resizing events in TreeGrid has been implemented.

### Bug fixes
{:#ejtreegrid-bug-fixes}

* \#156061- Issue with binding data to the details view, while using AngularJS template has been fixed.
* \#156393- Now the `queryCellInfo` event will be triggered while selecting next page button in Paging.
* \#154122- Focusing issue, while rendering large data without scrollbar, has been fixed.
* \#155484- Issue with changing data source dynamically has been fixed. 
* \#154122- Issue while resizing browser with `enableVirtualization` and `enableCollapseAll` properties enabled has been fixed.

### Breaking Changes
{:#ejtreegrid-breaking-changes}
*  Now the TreeGrid column resizing behavior has been changed. In earlier version when we resize a column, all other columns will be adjusted. Now only the current resizing column and the next column alone will be adjusted

## ejTreeView

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejtreeview-bug-fixes}

* \#156275 - Now able to get the specific tree data from `getTreeData()` method using ID as arguments.
* \#157382 - Now able to select or check the tree node when specify the field id containing dot.
* \#155738 - `getTreeData()` method returns tree node details when TreeView is created with empty data source and then tree node is added via `addNode()` method.
* \#156041 - TreeView performance enhanced, when large number of tree node is added via `addNode()` method.
* \#157803 - Now checked parent nodes can be unchecked properly.

## ejUploadbox

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejuploadbox-bug-fixes}

* \#152898 - While uploading 5MB size file using RTE file browser UploadBox, the internal server error occurs and it has been fixed now.
## ejWaitingPopup

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejwaitingpopup-bug-fixes}

* \#155854 -  WaitingPopup will not display even when the target element is hidden.
## Predictive Analytics

### Features
{:#predictive-analytics-features}

* \#154527 - Added support to return output field evaluation results along with Predicted Result.

### Bug Fixes
{:#predictive-analytics-bug-fixes}

* \#154922 - Resolved the scoring procedure issues with mining (Ensemble) model evaluator.
