---
title 		: Essential Studio for JavaScript 2016 Vol 1 (Service Pack 1) Release Notes
description : Essential Studio for JavaScript 2016 Vol 1 (Service Pack 1) Release Notes
platform 	: js
---

# Essential Studio for JavaScript Release Notes

{% include release-info.html date="May 3, 2016" version="v14.1.0.46" %} 



## ejChart

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejchart-bug-fixes}

* \#154917 - Trendline is now working properly for unsorted x values.
* \#154857 - Now the spline chart will get exported in excel.
* \#154144 - Datalabel is now clipped when it exceeds the chart area after zooming.
* \#153987 - Spline series is now working when the data is in string and the axis value type is in double.
* \#153723 - Exception on hovering lengthy legend text is fixed.
 


 
## ejCheckBox

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejcheckbox-bug-fixes}

* \#155234 - `change` event now triggered when `checked` property set dynamically in 'ejCheckBox' control.
## ejDateTimePicker

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejdatetimepicker-bug-fixes}

* \#154325 - Now you can select the ejDateTimePicker value through Keyboard interaction also.
* \#155130 - In AngularJS, ejDateTimePicker scope value now updated with null when DateTime value gets cleared.
## ejDiagram

### Bug fixes
{:#ejDiagram-bug-fixes}

* \#149988 – Issue in rendering the layout within the ViewPort when the child count is 5 is fixed.
* \#154239 – Lane's header font size is updating properly now when changing at runtime.
* \#154621,\#154503 - ContextMenu elements are not removed from the document while destroying the diagram is fixed.
* \#154533 - Swimlane is moved beyond the page boundary while performing nudge operation is fixed.
* \#154896,\#155448 - After saving the diagram, drag and drop lane into existing swimlane, the lane gets added into the top is fixed.
* \#123659 - Issue in exporting diagram background image in canvas is fixed.
* \#154924 - While selecting multiple elements in the swimlane and perform nudge operation, connectors are now updated properly.
* \#155274 - Exception raised while parsing JSON string to diagram model is fixed.
* \#155513 - Exception raised while selecting multiple nodes using `addSelection` API method and resizing it is fixed.
* \#153387 - Support for BPMN Flow shapes(SequenceFlow, MessageFlow and AssociationFlow) has been implemented.
## ejDropDownList

### Bug fixes
{:#ejDropDownList-bug-fixes}

* \#155523 – Localization support has been given for the DropDownList.
## ejGantt

### Features
{:#ejgantt-features}

* Now performance has been improved while rendering large data with multiple predecessors for each tasks in Gantt.
* \#154812 – Now the placeholder text in the search text box in Gantt will be hidden on mouse click instead of keypress event.
* \#152733 – Now Gantt can be displayed in read-only mode by enabling `readOnly` property
* \#146694 – Now it is possible to reorder the Gantt rows by enabling `allowDragAndDrop` property.

### Bug fixes
{:#ejgantt-bug-fixes}

* \#150657 – Now Gantt can be displayed without using `childMapping` property with self-referential datasource.

## ejGrid

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejgrid-bug-fixes}

*  \#153679 - Missed out methods are included in TypeScript.
*  \#151407 - Drop down edit working fine while using foreignkey adaptor 
*  \#150913, \#154265 - Frozen columns count maintained while refreshing the page.
*  \#151640 - Now, adding the record to Grid after sorting dateTime column is working properly.
*  \#150913 - All columns shown properly when frozen column is enabled.
*  \#154391 - Now, upper case in pager tooltip is working properly.
*  \#154509 - Grid content is refreshed while editing the Grid.
*  \#151133 - Now single edit form only shown, even if we click more than one row while using `showAddNewRow` property in ejGrid. 
*  \#154337 - The `scrollOneStepBy` property is included in TypeScript definition file.
*  \#153804 - Now the "OK" button in `columnChooser` is disabled, when all the columns are hidden while applying the locale.
*  \#153529,\#155038 - Pager refreshed when binding different data to Grid while set `EnablePersistence` as true.
*  \#154468 - Provided support to Invalidate local storage.
*  \#153621 - Column chooser is working properly, when the Grid render in AngularJS `ng-view` and navigate to the other page.
*  \#152885 - Updating columns through `columns` method is working properly.
*  \#153338 - Provided built-in support to synchronize server time zone offset.
*  \#153095 - Now, default value is set when bind complex data.
*  \#150811 - Performing select method is working fine when binding complex Data.
*  \#151133 - Selected records displayed while using `showAddNewRow` property in ejGrid.
*  \#154610 - `Query` Property is working fine in child Grid.  
*  \#152715 - Provided support to Grid gains focus, pressing the up/down navigation keys should navigate up or down the Grid records.
*  \#150273, \#154710 - Provided editing support for `template` column when `field` is bound to it.
*  \#153087 - Now vertical scrollbar is not rendered while `scrollSettings` height set as auto.
*  \#153619 - Provided tooltip support for header and content separately.
*  \#153804 - Provided locale support for Context Menu pager.
*  \#151276 - Provided support for ejGrid `headerText` and `filterbar` CSS properties are shown separately when using the ionic Framework.
*  \#139035 - Now, changed `_initValidator` internal function as a public method. 
*  \#155551 - Reordering is working properly, when we set `allowGrouping` as false in `columns` property.
*  \#154661 - Alert message is shown when width of frozen columns exceeds width of Grid window.

 
### Breaking Changes
{:#ejgrid-breaking-changes}

* In Grid, Persisted item in local storage has changed `$ej$+pluginName+id` instead of `pluginName+id`.




 	 
     
## ejKanban

### Features
{:#ejkanban-features}

* Provided UI support to add cards in each cell.
* Provided custom toolbar support.
* Provided constraints label support for each swimlane if constraints type is swimlane.


## ejMenu

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejmenu-bug-fixes}

* \#153798 – Context Menu now destroyed properly with `destroy()` function.
## ejNumericTextbox

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejnumerictextbox-bug-fixes}

* \#155649 – In AngularJS, Now 'e-change' behaves as like 'ng-change' for ejNumericTextbox and 'e-value' updated properly with 'ng-change'.
## ejOlapClient

### Bug fixes
{:#ejolapclient-bug-fixes}

* \#123725 - Words inside the dialog box got wrapped when it’s in large size has been fixed.
* \#123726 - AxisElementBuilder region now gets highlighted properly while dropping any member. 


## ejPivotGrid

### Bug fixes
{:#ejpivotgrid-bug-fixes}

* \#155225 - Number format is now working properly while applying localization.


## ejRadioButton

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejradiobutton-bug-fixes}

* \#152840 - The selected radio button value among the group of radio button now updated in the corresponding scope variable value.
## ejRangenavigator

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejrangenavigator-bug-fixes}

* \#155009 - Exception on setting range in string is fixed.
 


 
## ejReportViewer

### Features
{:#ejreportviewer-features}

* \#146074, #146095, #153532 Provided support to retain header visibility while scrolling the `ReportViewer` container.

## ejRibbon

### Features
{:#ejribbon-features}

* Provided support for RTL mode.

## ejRTE

### Bug fixes

{:#ejrte-bug-fixes}

* \#155617 – Context Menu works properly when multiple RichTextEditor controls are used.

## ejSchedule

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejschedule-bug-fixes}

* \#155393 - An issue with the jQuery.noConflict() method is fixed and it is working properly now.
* \#154801 - Script error that occurs on the usage of `firstDayOfWeek` property along with other cultures has been fixed.
* \#154814 – The appointment height gets updated correctly now with different timescale options.
* \#154389 – The case sensitive words are corrected within Scheduler.
* \#154445 – The problem with the display of appointments that are created through quick window in Month view is fixed now.
* \#153949 – An issue with the server-side Appointment edit event not getting triggered for categorize option selected through context menu is  fixed now.
## ejScroller

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejscroller-bug-fixes}

* \#153948 – Now the ejScroller can be moved using scrollX() and scrollY() methods.
## ejSpreadsheet

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejspreadsheet-bug-fixes}

* \#153982 - Issue with custom format support for cells with string type is fixed.
* \#154791 - Issue with waiting popup doesn’t hide after importing JSON by using loadFromJSON method is fixed.
* \#155406 - Issue with unwanted quotations are appearing when using text in formula is fixed.
## ejToggleButton

### Breaking Changes
{:#ejtogglebutton-breakingchanges}

* \#151276 – ejToggleButton now working properly with Ionic Framework.
## ejTreeGrid

### Bug fixes
{:#ejtreegrid-bug-fixes}

* \#154122 - Now the expanded state of a parent row will be maintained on resizing browser window, when both `enableVirtualization` and `enableCollapseAll` properties are enabled.

## ejTreeView

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejtreeview-bug-fixes}

* \#155683 – Responsiveness of ejTreeView is improvised, when selecting a node among large number of nodes.
## NuGet Package

### Features
{:#nuget-package-features}






## Predictive Analytics

### Features
{:#predictive-analytics-features}

* \#154527 - Added support to return output field evaluation results along with Predicted Result.

### Bug Fixes
{:#predictive-analytics-bug-fixes}

* \#154922 - Resolved the scoring procedure issues with mining (Ensemble) model evaluator.
