---
title 		: Essential Studio for JavaScript 2016 Vol 2 (Service Pack 1) Release Notes
description : Essential Studio for JavaScript 2016 Vol 2 (Service Pack 1) Release Notes
platform 	: js
---

# Essential Studio for JavaScript Release Notes

{% include release-info.html date="July 29, 2016" version="v14.2.0.28" %} 



## Common

### Bug Fixes
{:#common-bug-fixes}

* \#158120 - Triggering of mouse event prevented when touch action occurs on iPad device.
* \#156778 - During touch interaction, tap hold event unnecessarily triggered in non-touch devices is prevented.


## ejChart

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejchart-bug-fixes}

* \#160593 - Stacking area chart is now rendering properly, when having null value.
* \#160143, \#161014, \#161078  - 3D chart is now rotating properly, when the web page is having more than one chart.
* \#156777 - Unwanted scrollbar in the window is now removed, on zooming the chart.
* \#159173 - Tooltip for chart is now working properly, when placing the chart in Dialog control.
* \#158340, \#159294  - Chart is now rendering properly, when binding small set of data to the series, after a large set.
 

 

## ejDiagram

### Features
{:#ejdiagram-features}

* \#156278, \#159217 - Built-in support to activate the connection when mouse hover on the port is added.

### Bug fixes
{:#ejdiagram-bug-fixes}

* \#153371 - Changing swimlane constraints in nodeCollectionChange event is working properly now.
* \#160269 - UserHandles are not positioned properly is fixed.
* \#159524 - Issue in rendering the connector by initializing its segments as empty is fixed.
* \#159076 - Diagram `refresh` method is working properly now.
 

 

## ejDropDownList

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejdropdownlist-bug-fixes}

* \#159569, \#161115 - In the “select” event, when the default item of the DropDownList is selected, the corresponding value will be obtained instead of text.
* \#158152 – When the DropDownList is destroyed, the window events will be unbounded. 
* \#159947 – The issue of, “focus lost when there is a scroller and the DropDownList is to be selected by the key board interaction” has been rectified. 
* \#124752 - The navigation of browser to the previous page, when the “enableIncrementalSearch” property is true and the backspace is pressed on the search box that appears in the DropDownList has been fixed.

## ejFileExplorer

### Bug fixes
{:#ejfileexplorer-bug-fixes}

* \#157911 – Footer obstructs the last file item issue has been fixed in FileExplorer.

## ejGantt

### Bug fixes
{:#ejgantt-bug-fixes}

* \# 160524- Header alignment issue in year schedule mode for 'd/M/yyyy' date format has been fixed.
## ejGrid

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejgrid-bug-fixes}


*  \#158968 - `batch` editing is working fine while editing on date column 
*  \#157853 - `editTemplate`is working fine while binding the data for dropdown.
*  \#160498 - In Responsive Grid, horizontal scrollbar removed when the columns are hidden using `columnChooser`.
*  \#157276 - While refreshing each page, responsive Grid does not shrink in height.
*  \#160043 - Now, `filterType` column is working fine in `AngularJS` Grid.
*  \#150517 - Rows are not hidden in Responsive Grid, when set margin bottom for the Grid parent element.
*  \#157351,\#160181 - `childGrid` now displays valid data when GroupSummary is enabled
*  \#158555 - While enabling textWrap on `frozenColumns' header, unnecessary whitespace is removed.
*  \#158555,\#159761,\#150517,\#160672 - While refreshing Grid, rows height get refreshed in `Responsive` grid
*  \#159377 - `NaN` does not show for number `Column` on `batch` editing with `rowPosition` as bottom
*  \#159477 - Editing with detailRow enabled is working fine. 
*  \#158976 - Scrollbar get generated properly while adding new record on `batch` Editing.
*  \#159046 - `editParams` is working fine when `editMode` as `dropdownedit` with dataSource.
*  \#159168 - Performing any action in `childGrid` does not affects the parentGrid.
*  \#158909 - `setDimension` is working properly while enabling `columnChooser` in Grid.
*  \#158910 - Resizing the column working fine when dynamically change the `scrollSettings` of the Grid.
*  \#158946 - ExcelFilter working properly for foreignKey column.
*  \#158415 - Unnecessary confirmation dialogs has been prevented while expanding 'childGrid`.
*  \#158555 - Grid got refreshed after disable filtering with `isResponsive` mode enabled.
*  \#158734 - `filterBarTemplate` support works fine while using complex data binding.
*  \#F124274 - `columnChooser` renders properly when bind the `remoteData` with auto-generated columns in Grid.
*  \#152985,\#158016 - Wrong values are not passed to server-side when foreignkey field and parentKey field both have same property.
*  \#157682 - Now, Request Payload has been included with "if-Match" header for OData LightSwitch API.
*  \#155937 - Save/Cancel operation is working fine while enable the `editSettings` through set model
*  \#158120 - In iPad device, mouse event does not get triggered after the touch event.
*  \#156967,\#157686 - Missing properties in TypeScript definition file got included. 
*  \#156874 - In AngularJS 1, now Grid can work seamlessly with `debugInfoEnabled` as false.
 



## ejKanban(Preview)

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejkanban-bug-fixes}

* \#160582-Kanban search not working properly while adding extra fields in `searchSettings`.
* \#160584-Add enum value for Context Menu Item.
* \#159631-Priority drag and drop issue with Remote data in SignalR devices.
* \#159641-Provide current card details in Kanban `contextClick` event.




## ejListBox

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejlistbox-bug-fixes}

* \#160494 - Issue with updating datasource from setModel when grouping is enabled has been fixed.
## ejMaskEdit

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejmaskedit-bug-fixes}

* \#160004 - The HtmlAttributes property is working properly in MaskEdit component.

## ejMenu

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejmenu-bug-fixes}

* \#155457 – The collision of sub menus with the window has been fixed.
* \#156778 – The triggering of “taphold” event in the non-touch device has been stopped. Now, the triggering will be occurred only on touched devices.

## ejNumericTextbox

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejnumerictextbox-bug-fixes}

* \#159368 – Inconsistent values will not bound with decimal when using German locale.

## ejPdfViewer

### Bug fixes
{:#ejpdfviewer-bug-fixes}

* \#158443 - Loading indicator disappears after the display of the page in the PDF viewer
* \#158273 - Page navigation works as expected when loading PDF document pages of small dimensions.
* \#158170 - Different PDF documents can be loaded into the PDF viewer from the different tabs of the browser and can be viewed successfully.
* \#159248 - Texts in the PDF documents are rendered correct in the PDF viewer. 
* Link annotation is working as expected.

## ejPivotGrid

### Bug fixes
{:#ejpivotgrid-bug-fixes}

* \#159205 - Custom object parameter missing in the exporting service method has been fixed.
* \#159371 - Unwanted scrollbar display in PivotTable Field List has been fixed.
## ejRadioButton

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejradiobutton-bug-fixes}

* \#152840 - Two-way binding support given for group of radio button controls in AngularJS.

## ejRibbon

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejribbon-bug-fixes}

* \#156980- Backstage height and width is not set correctly while using splitter within it.
## ejRTE

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejrte-bug-fixes}

* \#157448, \#124660– The alignment issue of Responsive popup has been rectified in the RTE.
* \# 159251 – The error message displayed in the Find and Replace of the RTE control, has been changed to “Couldn't find specified word”.

## ejSchedule

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejschedule-bug-fixes}

* \#158342 – An issue with the `reminder` event not triggering in client-side has been fixed.
* \#159321 - An issue with the recurrence rule value not updating properly, when using the custom appointment window has been fixed.
* \#160203 – An issue with appointments not displaying in Scheduler, while setting resource `groupId` as alphanumeric has been fixed.
* \#160267 – Misalignment with Date header and work-cells, when `timeScale` is set as false and `cellWidth` property set with some specific value has been fixed.

## ejSpreadsheet

### Bug fixes
{:#ejspreadsheet-bug-fixes}

* \#159797 - Provided support to Set width to columns for particular sheets.
* \#159758 - Provided Support to set borders in Cell data binding.
* \#159721 - Issue with saveAsJSON method work flow is fixed.
* \#156980 - Issue with content inside the backstage container is not getting width - 100% in responsive mode is fixed.
* \#159415 - Issue with Custom formula name not added in formula suggestion dropdown is fixed.
* \#159142 - Issue with rowCount property work flow is fixed. 
* \#157915 - Issue with File menu is not removed when using removeTab() method is fixed.
* \#158076 - Issue with Data validation list options are misplaced when using it in ejDialog is fixed. 
* \#157628 - Provided support to Enable/disable option for add sheet in ejSpreadsheet.
* \#157632, 160338 - Provided support for Auto width height option in Spreadsheet.
* \#157287 - Provided support for TextIndent in Spreadsheet. 
* \#156980, 157915 - Provided support for ribbon Customization in Spreadsheet.
## ejTile

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejtile-bug-fixes}

* \#160731 - Issue with updating images using ImageClass property has been fixed.
## ejTreeGrid

### Bug fixes
{:#ejtreegrid-bug-fixes}

* \# 160976- Now the console error in IE11 browser while focusing the hidden TreeGrid element will no longer be thrown.
* \# 161106- Now the console error while adding a record from toolbar in self-referential datasource will no longer be thrown.

