---
title 		: Essential Studio for JavaScript 2016 Vol 3 Release Notes
description : Essential Studio for JavaScript 2016 Vol 3 Release Notes
platform 	: js
---

# Essential Studio for JavaScript Release Notes

{% include release-info.html date=site.releasedate.2016_vol_3 version=site.version.2016_vol_3 %} 



## Common

### Features
{:#common-features}

* Essential Studio for JavaScript components are now compatible with the latest version of jQuery 3.1.0
* jQuery easing external dependency has been removed from our JavaScript package from this version onwards.
* Four new themes are available for JavaScript components: two that are high contrast, a material theme, and an Office 365 theme.



### Bug Fixes
{:#common-bug-fixes}

* \#162022 - `$.extend()` function returns the improper result when referring jQuery 2.1.4 - Fixed
* \#125114 - Syncfusion controls renders properly in iOS native web view (Cordova Browser).
* \#158120 - Triggering of mouse event prevented when touch action occurs on iPad device.
* \#156778 - During touch interaction, tap hold event unnecessarily triggered in non-touch devices is prevented.
* \#159353 - In Theme Studio, we can provide `rgba` value for the gradient color customization.
* \#162203, \#163377 - We have provide the class `e-content-area` to customize the page background and font color.

### Breaking Changes
{:#common-breakingchanges}

* \#157054 - Proper naming convention is implemented in TypeScript definition file for Syncfusion JavaScript control's Array properties to ensure unique naming style followed throughout all the controls. For example, `columns: Array<Columns>` renamed as `columns: Array<Column>`.


* To avoid conflict between ej.web.all and ej.widgets.all JavaScript, theme and TypeScript files we are deprecating the below ej.widgets.all files and those files are no longer shipped along with our next Essential Studio release.
              - ej.widgets.all.min.css
              - ej.widgets.all.min.js
              - ej.widgets.all.d.ts
## ejSpellCheck `preview`

The ejSpellCheck is a JavaScript control used to to find and highlight the misspell words. It shows possible suggestions through dialog mode and context menu mode to correct the misspell words.


### Features
{:#ejspellcheck-features}

*	Highlighting the error word based on the user customized style.
*	Ignoring the alpha numeric, mixed case, upper case words and URL links.
*	Ignore the specific collection of words from the error word consideration using custom dictionary
*	Displaying the possible suggestions based on the user specified count.
## ejSignature `preview`

We have launched new control for capturing the digital signature with mouse and touch compatibility. The ejSignature is a JavaScript Plugin used to capture or drawing the smooth signatures.


### Features
{:#ejsignature-features}

* ejSignature captures signature as vector outlines of the strokes
* Using ejSignature we can customize the background, stroke width and stroke color. 
* Provided Undo, Redo & Clear options.
* Converts the captured signature into image format.
## ejDocumentEditor `Preview`

It is a JavaScript control that can be used to view documents similar to Microsoft Word. 

### Features
{:#ejdocumenteditor-features}
* Support for viewing Word documents (.doc, .docx), Rich text format documents (.rtf) and Plain text documents (.txt) as page by page has been added.
* Support for printing the rendered contents has been added.
* Support for selecting a portion of text using mouse interactions has been added.
* Support for copying the selected contents to clipboard using context menu has been added.
* Support for searching a specific part of text in the document has been added.
* Support for hyperlink navigation has been added.
* Support for scrolling, zooming using both mouse and touch interactions has been added.

## ejAccordion

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejaccordion-bug-fixes}

* \#160738 – The Button theme of border color will be applied properly when its is placed inside Accordion control.

## ejAutocomplete

### Bug Fixes
{:#autocomplete-bug-fixes}

* \#159833 - Autocomplete performance in devices has been improved.
* \#160638 - Autocomplete issue with remote service API call on "Equals" instead of "Contains" when applying filter as contains has been fixed
* \#162739 - In remote data binding Numeric Type can be used in Autocomplete. For Multicolumn setting have to add new attributes filterType and type of data for each column for enabling filtering in each columns. 
## ejBulletgraph
 
### Features
{:#ejbulletgraph-features}
 
* Provided touch support for interactive feature like tooltip.



## ejButton

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejbutton-bug-fixes}

* \#159376 - Now Bootstrap glyph-icons can be set as prefix/suffix icon in Button.

### Breaking Changes
{:#ejbutton-breaking-changes}

* `e-icon` class has been removed from ejButton source. Display EJ icons as prefix/suffix icon by using their corresponding class names along with `e-icon` class (`e-icon icon_name`).
## ejCalculate

### Features
{:#ejcalculate-features}

* Provided support for 10 new formulas.
* Provided support to return the error string like Excel for invalid formula.

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejcalculate-bug-fixes}

* \#159800 - LEFT and RIGHT formulas are now working fine.
## ejChart

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejchart-bug-fixes}
 
* \#160143, \#161014, \#161078  - 3D chart is now rotating properly, when the web page is having more than one chart.
* \#156777 - Unwanted scrollbar in the window is now removed, while zooming the chart.
* \#159173 - Tooltip for chart is now working properly, when placing the chart in `Dialog` control.
* \#158340, \#159294  - Chart is now rendering properly, when binding small set of data to the series, after a large set.
* \#162439 - Axis font style will not change while scrolling the chart.
* \#162004 - Last label will not hide while rendering in mobile, when the `labelPlacement` is `betweenTicks` .
* \#161632, \#161794 - Zooming is now working properly in canvas mode.
* \#160593 - Stacking Area is now rendering properly, when it has null value. 
* \#163164 - Localization is now working properly for numeric axis.
* \#162980 - Axis range is now calculated properly for logarithmic axis.
* \#162776 - Chart is now updating on changing the [`dataSource`](https://help.syncfusion.com/js/api/ejchart#members:series-datasource) using KO Observable array.
* \#162220 - Y axis labels is now rendering properly when y axis `range` starts from 0 and all y values has same decimal points.


 
### Features
{:#ejchart-features}

* \#157009 - Provided support for rounded corners in column chart. 
* \#145092 - Provided support for padding in axis title.  
* \#158006 - Provided support for showing trackball tooltip in grouped mode.  
* \#117713, \#147049, \#146053, \#121284, \#147784 - Provided support for multi-level axis labels. 
* \#155743, \#159246 - Provided support to select point/series programmatically while initializing the chart.  
* Provided support to wrap the data label in Pie, Doughnut, Pyramid and Funnel series. 
* Provided support for rounded corners in trackball tooltip.
* Provided touch support for interactive features like trackball, crosshair, tooltip, selection and pinch zooming.

### Breaking Changes
{:#ejchart-breaking-changes}

* Rounded corner `rx` and `ry` values for crosshair tooltip has been changed from 0 to 3.
* Now the trackball tooltip will render with rounded corners by default. 
* Revamped the position and content of trackball tooltip in charts such as Candle, OHLC, HiLo, Range Column, Range Area.
* Default font size of [`title.font.size`](https://help.syncfusion.com/js/api/ejchart#members:title-font-size) has been changed from 20px to 16px.
* Default font size of [`primaryXAxis.title.font.size`](https://help.syncfusion.com/js/api/ejchart#members:primaryxaxis-title-font-size) has been changed from 16px to 14px.
* Default font size of [`primaryYAxis.title.font.size`](https://help.syncfusion.com/js/api/ejchart#members:primaryyaxis-title-font-size) has been changed from 16px to 14px.
* Default font size of [`primaryXAxis.font.size`](https://help.syncfusion.com/js/api/ejchart#members:primaryxaxis-font-size) has been changed from 13px to 11px.
* Default font size of [`primaryYAxis.font.size`](https://help.syncfusion.com/js/api/ejchart#members:primaryyaxis-font-size) has been changed from 13px to 11px.
* Default font size of [`series.marker.dataLabel.font.size`](https://help.syncfusion.com/js/api/ejchart#members:series-marker-datalabel-font-size) has been changed from 12px to 11px.
  


## ejCirculargauge
 
### Features
{:#ejcirculargauge-features}
 
* Provided touch support for user interactions like tooltip, pointer drag and drop.



## ejDatePicker

### Features
{:#ejdatepicker-features}

* \#158027 - Provided the new event `navigate` which triggers on Calendar navigation.

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejdatepicker-bug-fixes}
* \#159647, \#160075 - DatePicker supports all applicable date formats.
## ejDiagram

### Bug fixes
{:#ejDiagram-bug-fixes}

* \#153371 - Changing swimlane constraints in `nodeCollectionChange` event is working properly now.
* \#160269 - UserHandles are not positioned properly is fixed.
* \#159524 - Issue in rendering the connector by initializing its segments as empty is fixed.
* \#159076 - Diagram `refresh` method is working properly now.
* \#162135 - `sizeChange` event now return proper old and new values of the node.
* \#161705 - support to update overview width and height at runtime is added.
* \#161593 - Z-order commands now working properly with HTML node.
* \#161509 - Rotating HTML node is working properly now, after saving and loading.
* \#161346,\#161347,\#162681 - While exporting the diagram into SVG format, labels are rendered properly now.
* \#161002 - Performance has been improved now, while adding more nodes in a group.
* \#163005 - Clipboard operation is now working properly for swimlane with multiple nodes.
* \#162914 - Issue in adding swimlane at runtime is fixed.
* \#162780 - `PageSettings.boundaryConstraints` is now working properly for API methods.
* \#162525 - Issue in connector docking with BPMN shapes is fixed.
* \#162130 - `DragLabel` constraints is now working properly for orthogonal connector. 

### Features
{:#ejDiagram-features}

* \#156278, \#159217 - Built-in support to activate the connection when mouse hover on the port is added.
* \#158548 - Support to get diagram id from client side events arguments has been implemented.
* \#160442 - Support to position the cursor for label editor has been implemented.
* \#154120 - Support to render the nodes and connector with sharp edges is added.
* Support to restrict the undo and redo actions to a certain limit is added.
* Multiplicity support for UML Connectors is added.
* Droppable support to BPMN Sub-Process is added.
* Expand and collapse icon support for node is added.

### Breaking changes
{:#ejDiagram-breaking-changes}

* Events `nodeCollectionChange`, `connectorCollectionChange` and `selectionChange` will be triggered twice in the diagram, to represent different `state`.
    * It will be trigger before adding the node/connector/selection in the diagram which is cancelable.
    * it will trigger again after adding the node/connector/selection into the diagram which is not be cancelable.
## ejDialog

### Bug Fixes
{:#dialog-bug-fixes}

* \#161956 - Issue with Dialog on calling close and open methods continuously has been fixed.
## ejDropDownList

### Bug fixes
{:#ejdropdownlist-bug-fixes}

* \#160485, \#159947 - On clicking the DropDownList popup items,triggering of Toolbar item "click" event will be prevented.
* \#162228, \#162296 - DropDownList popup open properly if it is placed in ng-repeat of AngularJS.
* \#161545 - The issue of,"DropDownList popup of last dropdown opens but the previous dropdown popup could not be opened when dynamically adding the DropDownList" has been rectified.
* \#161706, \#162490 - On setting the data source to dynamically added DropDownList with multiSelectMode as visual mode,then the DropDownList textbox hiding issue has been resolved.
* \#160126 - The console error of "Cannot read property 'id' of undefined" has been cleared now while rendering the DropDownList using WebPack.
* \#160071 - The issue of,"DropDownList e-value is not cleared from its scope" has been rectified.	
* \#162686 - The DropDownList focus has been maintained properly in IE browser.
* \#163173 - The issue of "readOnly property does not work in remote data binding" has been rectified.
* \#124752 - The navigation of browser to the previous page, when the "enableIncrementalSearch" property is true and the backspace is pressed on the search box that appears in the DropDownList has been fixed.
* \#158152 - When the DropDownList is destroyed, the window events will be unbounded. 
* \#159569, \#161115 - In the "select" event, when the default item of the DropDownList is selected, the corresponding value will be obtained instead of text.

## ejFileExplorer

### Features
{:#ejfileexplorer-features}

* \#161173 - The FileExplorer allows to access the shared folder which is connected via local area network.

* \#161660 - In FileExplorer, we have provided the API `allowKeyboardNavigation` to enable/disable the Keyboard Navigation.

* \#140098, \#141095, \#153296, \#153869 - The FileExplorer allows files to be moved from one folder to another by using drag and drop. It also supports uploading a file by dragging it from Windows Explorer to a folder in the FileExplorer control.

* \#155542 - The FileExplorer allows thumbnail images to be compressed on the server side and loaded into the FileExplorer layout to improve performance when working with large size images.

* \#159186 - Provided the option to customize the ContextMenu items in FileExplorer control.

* \#159186 - Provided API `allowSearchOnTyping` to perform the search action only on `Enter` key press. 

* We have provided the sort by option to sort the files and folders in the FileExplorer in Tile / Large Icons views.


### Bug fixes
{:#ejfileexplorer-bug-fixes}

* \#157911 – Footer obstructs the last file item issue has been fixed in FileExplorer.

### Breaking Changes
{:#ejfileexplorer-breaking-changes}

* In FileExplorer control, `select` event is triggered while unselect any items in grid/tile view issue has been fixed and now we have provided `unselect` event while unselect any items in grid/tile view.  
## ejGantt

### Features
{:#ejgantt-features}

* \#135640, 137008,141041, 154323, 150261, 157435- Now the UI of add and edit dialogs in Gantt has been enhanced with tabbed view for displaying multiple fields, and also added ‘Notes’ tab to add task description.
* Gantt now supports rendering manually scheduled tasks and auto scheduled tasks in a project.
* \#150261, 157443  ,158462 – Now Gantt provides support to highlight the important and critical tasks in a project.
* Gantt now supports customizable working time ranges in a day for the tasks along the project. 
* Now Gantt provides support for work calculation for the tasks based on task type (fixed duration, fixed work, fixed resource units) and effort driven values.
* \#161981 - Now [`actionBegin`](/js/api/ejgantt#events:actionbegin). event will also be triggered while adding a new row to Gantt.

### Bug fixes
{:#ejgantt-bug-fixes}

* \#160524- Header alignment issue in year schedule mode for ‘d/M/yyyy’ date format has been fixed.
* \#162073- Issue with tasks’ end date calculation in 8 hour working timescale has been fixed.
* \#162071- Issue with taskbar width calculation for date format with ‘HH’ has been fixed now.

### Breaking Changes
{:#ejgantt-breaking-changes}

* Now the editor type of the duration column has been changed from numeric to string type, to support displaying duration units in the project such as days, hours and minutes. Hence duration column will be displayed along with duration unit, with days as default duration unit.
* Now the editor type for the duration and predecessor offset fields in the add and edit dialogs has been changed from numeric to string type, to support displaying duration units in the project such as days, hours and minutes. 

## ejGrid

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejgrid-bug-fixes}

*  \#163076 - Grid is fit to browser width while resizing the browser window, when `enablePersistence` is enabled. 
*  \#163083 - While navigating to next page the scroller is refreshed based on the current page records.
*  \#162837 - Filtering works perfectly, if multiple `foreignKey` columns has same field name.
*  \#162085 - Now filtering works for alphanumeric values of string columns .
*  \#160416 - Editing works properly while double click on the `template` column.
*  \#160293 ,\#163699 - Now arg.previousData value updated properly in endEdit event, after adding a new record in to the Grid control. 
*  \#161978 - Grid scroller is refreshed when we collapsed the detail row in the responsive grid.
*  \#161916 - Shown the filtered record properly even resize the window less than `minWidth`.
*  \#159776 - Resizing is working properly in the RTL grid.
*  \#159651 - Date column format is applied correctly, when we enabled grouping in the Grid.
*  \#156595 ,\#160977 - Now the mouse down event triggered, while multiple Grid is rendered.
*  \#162052 - Edit modes are rendered properly within frozen columns, even if we bound empty `dataSource` to Grid.
*  \#160134 - Reordering works properly, when reorder the `template` and un-bounded column. 
*  \#159375 - Default clear icon is removed in the Search box, for clearing the search string using the Internet Explorer browser.
*  \#160662 - We can get the selected row record even after adding the multiple records using batch `editMode`.
*  \#162000 - Now we can filter the `foreignKey` column using the `filterBar` based on the specific operator.
*  \#162821 - After editing the grid contents are aligned properly in the Edge browser.


### Breaking Changes
{:#ejgrid-breaking-changes}
  
*  Grid `height` responsiveness will works only if the `scrollSettings`->`height` property is set as '100%'. 
*  Default column resizing mode has been changed to `Normal` from `NextColumn`.
*  While referring individual files, it is essential to include ej.tooltip.min.js file in project for rendering toolbar in Grid.

### Features
{:#ejgrid-features}

*  \#132804, \#134342, \#141043 - Provided multiple selection using check box support. 
*  \#134543, \#137938, \#141896, \#144492, \#145975, \#157845, \#158073, \#159059, \#161819, \#162907 - Provided remote searching support for larger data in excel filter choices.  
*  \#127320, \#135409,\#135720,\#136193, \#138406, \#138324, \#139793, \#146637, \#148848,\#150126,\#149668,\#153046,\#157390, \#157993,\#160392, \#161846 - Now, provided editing support in virtual scrolling. 
  
## ejHeatMap

### Features
{:#ejheatmap-features}

* Internet Explorer 8 browser support for the heat map control has been added.
* Responsive support for the heat map control has been provided.

## ejKanban

### Features
{:#ejkanban-features}

* Multiple key binding support has been provided for Kanban columns to allow the transition of multiple status.
* Provided support for Drag and Drop the cards across swim lanes.
* Provided workflow support to a set of transitions that a card moves through during its process cycle for Kanban.
* Provided support to prevent dragging and dropping on particular column.

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejkanban-bug-fixes}

* \#160506-Kanban column total count issues are resolved.
* \#162948-`RankId` of undefined drag and drop issue has been resolved with primary key as GUID data-type.


### Breaking Changes
{:#ejkanban-breaking-changes}

* `menuItem` property removed from `contextMenuSettings.menuItems`.User can give [`menuItems`](https://help.syncfusion.com/js/api/ejkanban#members:contextmenusettings-menuitems) as string of array.
* Kanban card layout structure has been changed. 
* To avoid multiple internal processing for handling UI related changes on the Kanban control while doing priority sorting or filtering with drag and drop, complete refresh will be taken place now, instead of updating the dropped cards alone.
* expandAll, collapseAll , toggleSwimlane  methods are changed module based methods as `KanbanSwimlane.expandAll` ,`KanbanSwimlane.collapseAll` , `KanbanSwimlane.toggle`.
* clearSelection method is changed module based method as `KanbanSelection.clear`.
* clearSearch, searchCards, clearFilter , filterCards methods are changed module based methods as `KanbanFilter.clearSearch`,`KanbanFilter.searchCards`,`KanbanFilter.clearFilter`,`KanbanFilter.filterCards`.

## ejLineargauge
 
### Features
{:#ejlineargauge-features}
 
* Provided touch support for interactive features like tooltip, pointer drag and drop.



## ejListBox

### Bug Fixes
{:#listbox-bug-fixes}

* \#163799 - Issue with ListBox on Drag and Drop element is not visible in ListBox Bootstrap theme has been fixed.
* \#160494 - Issue with updating datasource from setModel when grouping is enabled has been fixed.
## ejListView

### Bug Fixes
{:#listview-bug-fixes}

* \#162232 - Issue on setting custom attribute to ListView items have been fixed
## ejMap
 
### Features
{:#ejmap-features}
 
* Provided touch support for interactive features like tooltip, selection and highlight.



## ejMenu

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejmenu-bug-fixes}

* \#155457 – The collision of sub menus with the window has been fixed.
## ejNavigationDrawer

### Bug Fixes
{:#navigationdrawer-bug-fixes}

* \#160116 - Issue with rendering other controls in NavigationDrawer pane have been fixed.
## ejPdfViewer

### Features
{:#ejpdfviewer-features}

* \#155070, \#149793, \#158252 - Support is added to download the PDF document displayed in ejPdfViewer control.
* \#159474 - Support for the text selection has been included in ejPdfViewer control.
* \#158735, \#159474, \#163084 - Provided the text search support in ejPdfViewer control.

### Bug Fixes
{:#sfpdfviewercontrol-bug-fixes}

* \#159248 - Text contents are rendered properly in ejPdfViewer control.
* \#160434 - Word to PDF converted PDF documents are displayed properly in ejPdfViewer control. 
* \#158170 - Pages in the PDF document are now updated properly when loading different documents in different browsers. 
* \#158324 - Table borders are rendered properly.
* \#158324 - Text selection does not fail for the Word to PDF converted document.

## ejPivotChart

### Breaking changes
{:#ejpivotchart-breaking-changes}

* Assembly name `Syncfusion.EJ.Olap` has been changed to `Syncfusion.EJ.Pivot`.


## ejPivotClient

### Breaking changes
{:#ejpivotclient-breaking-changes}

* Assembly name has been changed from `Syncfusion.EJ.Olap` to `Syncfusion.EJ.Pivot`.
* Widget name has been changed from `ejOlapClient` to `ejPivotClient`.
* Class name has been changed from `OlapClient` to `PivotClient`.
* Namespace has been changed from `Syncfusion.JavaScript.Olap.OlapClient` to `Syncfusion.JavaScript.PivotClient`.
* The following class has been changed from `ej.olap.OlapClient.Locale` to `ej.PivotClient.Locale` due to control name change.
* The enumerations has been changed from `ej.olap.OlapClient` to `ej.PivotClient` due to control name change.

### Features
{:#ejpivotclient-features}

* \#154690, #156434, #156027, #157694 - Provided support for OLAP data source at client mode.
* \#161208 - Paging in member editor for OLAP data source. 
* \#162047 - Exporting operation has been optimized to obtain improved performance. 
* Provided support for relational data sources both at server mode and client mode.
* Label and value filtering for OLAP data source has been implemented like in Microsoft Excel.
* Paging and virtual scrolling support for OLAP data source.

## ejPivotGauge

### Breaking changes
{:#ejpivotgauge-breaking-changes}

* Assembly name `Syncfusion.EJ.Olap` has been changed to `Syncfusion.EJ.Pivot`.


## ejPivotGrid

### Breaking changes
{:#ejpivotgrid-breaking-changes}

* Assembly name `Syncfusion.EJ.Olap` has been changed to `Syncfusion.EJ.Pivot`.

### Features
{:#ejpivotgrid-features}

* \#155849 - Implemented paging support for OLAP data source in Client Mode.
* \#159241 - Cell editing support for relational data source in both Server and Client Mode has been done. 
* \#159371 - Excel-like layout support has been implemented for both OLAP and relational data sources.  
* \#158253 - Show/hide sub-totals and grand-totals for both OLAP and relational data sources has been done. 
* \#142404, #143465, #146184 - Dynamic column re-sizing support has been provided.
* \#117474, #135837, #156363 - Frozen header support has been provided.
* \#151332 - Support to save and load the PivotReports in PivotGrid at Client Mode has been done. 
* \#158253 - Exporting with conditional formatting applied has been done.
* Support to set the number format directly inside the data source has been done.
* Calculated field implementation has been done for relational data source at Server Mode.
* Implemented drill-through support for OLAP data source in Server Mode.

## ejPivotTreeMap `Preview`

The PivotTreeMap control lets the user to visualize OLAP data in the form of nested nodes in hierarchical order with the ability to drill up and down.

### Breaking changes
{:#ejpivottreemap-breaking-changes}

* Assembly name `Syncfusion.EJ.Olap` has been changed to `Syncfusion.EJ.Pivot`.


## ejRadioButton

### Bug fixes
{:#ejradiobutton-bug-fixes}

* \#152840 - Provided the two-way binding support for group of RadioButton controls.
## ejRangeNavigator
 
### Features
{:#ejrangenavigator-features}
 
* Provided touch support for interactive features like selection, tooltip and slider.



## ejReportViewer

### Features
{:#ejreportviewer-features}

* \#146053 - Provided the Chart Grouping support in ejReportViewer.

### Bug Fixes	
{:#ejreportviewer-bug-fixes}

* \#159261 - Issue with fill color value in chart has been fixed.
* \#161855 - Now the column header text appearing inside of table for nested tablix.
* \#161777 - Issue with Chart axis range interval has been resolved.
* \#146053 - Now rectangle report item has been increased properly when placed Tablix with column grouping.
* \#146053 - Now the chart data labels are displayed in center position.
* \#146053 - Now the chart data labels are rendered properly for custom format.
* \#146053 - Now the Tablix is rendered properly, if the Datasource count is zero.
* \#159261 - Issue with custom code modules has been fixed to access the Report Parameters.
* \#146053 - Issue with Date serial has been fixed when use the zero day value.
* \#155879 - Now the Report Header and Footer size is updated properly based on Tablix grouping.
* \#159261 - Now Parameter labels are rendered properly when the user defined values are provided in dataset.
* \#159456 - Now the `code modules` will load properly for VB functions.
* \#159456 - Now the `custom assembly` will import properly in `code modules`.

## ejRibbon

### Features
{:#ejribbon-features}

* Adaptive support has been provided to Ribbon to adjust its size according to the screen size on which it renders.

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejribbon-bug-fixes}

* \#162855-Custom div content is only will show with the Ribbon is pinned



## ejRTE

### Features

{:#ejrte-features}

* The RTE provides `Custom execute command` that execute selection, range and cursor based commands for all the browser. Since the default execute command behaves inconsistencies across browsers.

* The RTE provides `XHTML validation` from server side to validate the given HTML that ensure with the XHTML standard. It helps to export the RTE content into Word or a PDF file with proper formatted content.

### Bug Fixes

{:#ejrte-bug-fixes}

* \#161259 - While clicking toolbar commands, the cursor maintenance issue in Microsoft Edge has been fixed.
* \#161602 - The issue of,"While copying the content from word and paste in RTE,change event doesn't trigger" has been rectified.
* \#162858 - The RTE content has been wrapped properly while on using "&nbsp;" in the content area.
* \#162486 - The Grid and RichTextEditor controls can be rendered in the Dialog control.
* \#161033 - When the table is copied from the Word document to the RTE's content area, the support for table column resizing with the mouse has been given.
* \#159251 - The error message displayed in the Find and Replace of the RTE control, has been changed to "Couldn't find specified word".
* \#157448, \#124660 - The alignment issue of Responsive popup has been rectified in the RTE.


## ejSchedule

### Features
{:#ejschedule-features}

* \#156158 - Scheduler is now provided with an option to show/hide the timezone fields in an appointment window using the API `showTimeZoneFields`. It also provides another API namely, `applyTimeOffset` to include or exclude the time offset calculation on appointments based on the timezones.

* \#150560 - PDF Export feature in Scheduler has been enhanced with additional options to export it along with the custom dates, blockout settings features and also allowing it to show/hide the header bar, all-day row and time scale options.

* A new method namely `notifyChanges` has been introduced to handle the Scheduler CRUD operations while using SignalR concept.


### Bug Fixes
{:#ejschedule-bug-fixes}

* \#163043 – Scheduler shows correct week range now while using `firstDayOfWeek` property.
* \#162359, \#162951 – Extra parameter is added to denote the recurrence appointment type, while it is being edited or deleted.
* \#163238, \#163570 - Now the string/float values can be set for an appointment Id and parentId fields.
* \#158342 – An issue with the `reminder` event not triggering in client-side has been fixed.
* \#159321 - An issue with the recurrence rule value not updating properly, when using the custom appointment window has been fixed.
* \#160203 – An issue with appointments not displaying in Scheduler, while setting resource `groupId` as alphanumeric has been fixed.
* \#160267 – Misalignment with Date header and work-cells, when `timeScale` is set as false and `cellWidth` property set with some specific value has been fixed.
* \#161092 – Appointment recurrence rule is updating correctly, as per the values passed to the `recurrenceExDate` field.
* \#160403 - Multiple instances of the recurrence editor can be rendered properly on the same page.
* \#160704 – Dropdown and Datepicker fields within the recurrence editor are working correctly in the Firefox versions 46 and 47.
* \#160436 – All the appointments that lies within the selected date range are getting displayed correctly in Agenda view.
* \#154801, \#160276, \#160770 - Schedule is rendering properly, when the `firstDayOfWeek` property is used with different cultures.

## ejSparkline
 
### Features
{:#ejsparkline-features}
 
* Provided touch support for interactive feature like tooltip.



## Splitter

### Bug Fixes
{:#splitter-bug-fixes}

* \#160632 - Issue with Splitter behavior on changing splitter bar size has been fixed.
## ejSpreadsheet

### Features
{:#ejspreadsheet-features}

* Provided support for read-only mode.
* Provided support for context menu customization.
* Improved the initial rendering performance.

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejspreadsheet-bug-fixes}

* \#159721 - Issue with saveAsJSON method work flow is fixed.
* \#156980 - Issue with content inside the backstage container is not getting 100% width in responsive mode is fixed.
* \#159415 - Issue with custom formula name not added in formula suggestion dropdown is fixed.
* \#159142 - Issue with rowCount property work flow is fixed. 
* \#157915 - Issue with file menu is not removed when using removeTab() method is fixed.
* \#158076 - Issue with data validation dialog list options are misplaced when Spreadsheet is inside a dialog is fixed.
* \#160108 - Issue with named range having entire row & column references on exporting is fixed.
* \#161152 - Issue with context menu while page has multiple Spreadsheet is fixed and extra arguments added in actionComplete event.
* \#162418 - Issue with chart resizing is fixed.
* \#162866,163093 - Issue with opening context menu in edited cell is fixed.
* \#161697,162419 - Issue with improper used range update while importing excel file is fixed.
* \#160305,160272 - Issue with script error thrown while importing excel with frozen rows on initial load is fixed.
* \#159800,161111,161159 - Issue with LEFT() & RIGHT() formulas for number formatting applied values is fixed.
* \#160700 - Issue with bottom border is missing when 'showPager' as false is fixed.
* \#160108 - Issue with selection misalignment while importing excel file with hidden rows and columns is fixed.
* \#162915 - Issue with exporting Spreadsheet containing reordered charts is fixed.
* \#161685 - Increased the indent level of a text in text indent feature.
* \#161196 - Improved getting started samples.
* \#162866,163093 - Improved the selection border width.
* \#159797 - Provided support to set width to columns for particular sheet.
* \#159758 - Provided support to set borders in cell data binding.
* \#157628 - Provided support to enable/disable option for add new sheet in Spreadsheet.
* \#157632, 160338 - Provided support for auto width height option in Spreadsheet.
* \#157287 - Provided support for text indent in Spreadsheet. 
* \#156980, 157915 - Provided support for ribbon customization in Spreadsheet.
* \#160608 - Provided the Jquery-3.0 support for Spreadsheet.
* \#160307 - Provided the overflow API for initial load and import.
* \#162418 - Provided support for disable chart dragging, calculate options and chart design tab options dynamically.
* \#161152 - Provided support for disabling editing operation in comment text area.
* \#162866,163093 - Provided support for keyUp, keyDown event.
* \#162988 - Provided support for change, reset, update border operations in pictures dynamically.
* \#162988 - Provided support for filter operations dynamically.
* \#161196 - Changed the default value of showHeader to "true".

### Breaking Changes
{:#ejspreadsheet-breaking-changes}

* \#162866,163093 - Improved the selection border width.
* \#161196 - Changed the default value of showHeader to "true".
## ejTextboxes

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejtextboxes-bug-fixes}

* \#147187 - Now watermark text of the Textbox has been changed as per the applied locale.

* \#162536 - Now we can get the Key code value in the "key" events of the MaskEdit control.

* \#160004 - The htmlAttributes property is working properly in MaskEdit component.

## ejTile

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejtile-bug-fixes}

* \#160731 - Issue with updating images using ImageClass property has been fixed.
## ejTimePicker

### Bug fixes
{:#ejtimepicker-bug-fixes}

* \#161920 - TimePicker text box value misbehaves in Firebox/IE browsers when enter the value after select and delete all characters - fixed.
## ejTooltip

### Bug Fixes 
{:#ejtooltip-bug-fixes}

* \#160387,\#160341,\#161104 – The Tooltip position has been placed correctly when containment position set to absolute or relative.
## ejTreeGrid

### Features 
{:#ejtreegrid-features}

* \#156028-TreeGrid now provides support for checkbox row selection.

### Bug fixes
{:#ejtreegrid-bug-fixes}

* \#160976- Now the console error in Internet Explorer 11 browser while focusing the hidden TreeGrid element will no longer be thrown.
* \#161106- Now the console error while adding a record from toolbar in self-referential data source will no longer be thrown.

### Breaking Changes
{:#ejtreegrid-breaking-changes}
* The property [`selectionMode`](/js/api/ejtreegrid#members:selectionmode) has been deprecated, instead use `selectionSettings.selectionMode`. 
* The property [`selectionType`](/js/api/ejtreegrid#members:selectiontype) has been deprecated, instead use `selectionSettings.selectionType`.

## ejTreemap
 
### Features
{:#ejtreemap-features}
 
* Provided touch support for interactive features like tooltip and selection.



## ejTreeView

### Features
{:#ejtreeview-features}

* Provided option in `collapseAll`/`expandAll` method to expand /collapse nodes up to specific level.

* \#156288 - Provided multiple node selection support in TreeView control.

* \#133614, \#158321 - Provided option to drag multiple nodes in TreeView control.

* \#160961 - Provided option to get the child nodes of the specific node.

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejtreeview-bug-fixes}
* \#161071 - When enable `loadOnDemand` property in TreeView control, the `expandAll` method does not expand the child nodes which are newly added while expand the parent node issue has been fixed.

## ejUploadbox

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejuploadbox-bug-fixes}

* \#160100- The issue of,"File name is shown as ToolTip in browse button after upload is cancelled in Firefox browser" has been rectified.
* \#162969- The file content has been preserved while uploading the files in safari browser using multiple file selection.
* \#162852- Included the file size in original alert message and also given space between extensions in allow extensions error message of Uploadbox.
* \#162969- Disabled the multiple file selection option in safari browser.
* \#161162- The issue, "Subsequent uploading of files using UploadBox control" has been rectified.

## ejWaitingPopup

### Features
{:#ejwaitingpopup-features}

* Provided support for WaitingPopup element `append to` the given container element. 
## Predictive Analytics

### Features
{:#predictive-analytics-features}

* \#160092 - Added support for K-Nearest Neighbors model.

