---
title 		: Essential Studio for JavaScript 2016 Volume 4  Release Notes
description : Essential Studio for JavaScript 2016 Volume 4  Release Notes
platform 	: js
---

# Essential Studio for JavaScript Release Notes

{% include release-info.html date=site.releasedate.2016_vol_4 version=site.version.2016_vol_4 %} 



## Common

### Features
{:#common-features}

* \#162203 - Now Theme studio have the option to switch to the previous version, to customize the corresponding version`s themes.

* Included Electron Sample Browser Support for Mac.

* \#155216 - Two way binding support for template in Knockout.

### Bug Fixes
{:#common-bug-fixes}

* \#165284 - TypeScript definition for `ej.setCulture()` added.

* \#165738 - Downloaded LESS and CSS files are from theme studio which was not generated properly henceforth, issue has been fixed.

* \#165981 - Issue with script error while changing numeric textbox value in Knockout binding is fixed.

### Breaking Changes
{:#common-breaking-changes}


* CDN links for globalization files are standardized and now provided as version independent (eg: https://cdn.syncfusion.com/js/assets/i18n/ej.culture.en-US.min.js). Those files will not undergo any version specific changes.
## ejAutocomplete

### Bug Fixes
{:#autocomplete-bug-fixes}

* \#165914 - The issue with creating multiple Autocomplete widget using class have been fixed.
* \#F125873 - The problem with viewing the hovered Autocomplete items on keyboard navigation have been fixed.
## ejCalculate

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejcalculate-bug-fixes}

* \#163821 - MIN, MAX and TRANSPOSE formulas are working now properly.
* `SUMIFS` formula is working now properly.
## ejChart

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejchart-bug-fixes}
 
* \#166594 - Animation for line type series is now working properly for jQuery 3 and above version.
* \#165051 - Marker is now removed properly while the points in series are emptied.
* \#165243 - Radar chart is now rendering properly while enabling the marker.
* \#166453 - Zoom toolbar is now rendering properly in canvas mode.
* \#164589 - Zoom toolbar will not hide while enabling the `dataLabel` [`template`](https://help.syncfusion.com/api/js/ejchart#members:series-marker-datalabel-template).

 
### Features
{:#ejchart-features}

* Provided support for drag and drop of points in chart. 
* \#160843 - Provided support for datetime category axis.  
* \#162320 - Provided an option to force the range for vertical axis of column type series to start from zero.​​​ By default the range will start from zero.  
 


  


## ejCheckbox

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejcheckbox-bug-fixes}

* \#164523 - Now Checkbox can be disabled using `disabled` HTML attribute.
## ejCirculargauge
 
### Bug Fixes
{:#ejcircular-bug-fixes}
 
* \#165319  - Background color for half-circular gauge is now applied properly.



## ejColorPicker

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejcolorpicker-bug-fixes}

* \#166473 - Uppercase characters (shift + characters) are allowed in `HEX` field to specify hexadecimal values.
* \#166076 - Now `Select` event triggered on opacity changes also.
* \#166473 - Now localization can be achieved in ColorPicker using `locale` API.
## ejDataManager

### Bug Fixes
{:#datamanager-bug-fixes}

* \#166720 - The issue "WebApiAdaptor is not included in typescript" has been fixed.
* \#164806 - CRUD url will be triggered when the Datamanager with instance of ej.remoteSaveAdaptor is  set through setModel.
## ejDatePicker

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejdatepicker-bug-fixes}

* \#166193 - Now DatePicker displayed as pristine until user interaction occurs.
* \#165402 - DatePicker destroyed properly.
* \#163377 - In theme studio, day header text color issues in DatePicker is fixed.
## ejDateRangePicker `Preview`

DateRangePicker is a calendar-type control which uses two inline calendars as single input elements to select two different dates, establishing a range. The two selected dates will be considered as the start date and end date in the range.

### Key Features
{:#ejdaterangepicker-key-features}

*	Provides an option to select dates from a pop-up. 
*	Provides an option to set predefined custom ranges for easier selection.
*	Supports AngularJS and KnockoutJS frameworks.
*	Supports localization.
*	Mobile-friendly.
## ejDateTimePicker

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejdatetimepicker-bug-fixes}

* \#166648 - Now DateTimePicker rendered properly in IE9, when minimum and maximum date time value set as same.
* \#163377 - In theme studio, day header text color and button font color issues in DateTimePicker is fixed.
* \#164270 - Date and time value can be selected from DateTimePicker on mobile devices.
## ejDiagram

### Features
{:#ejdiagram-features}

* Support to add lane dynamically at specified index is added.

### Bug fixes
{:#ejdiagram-bug-fixes}
 
* \#163575 - Context menu id rendered with menuItem's `text` instead of menuItem's `name` is fixed.
* \#164097 - Label editor not positioned properly when rendering overview control before diagram control is fixed.
* \#164133 - `MultiSelect` constraints for lane is now working properly at runtime.
* \#164467 - While drawing text node at runtime, customized `textBlock` properties are now reflected properly.
* \#164368 - No changes occurred while setting the `enableRouting` API in the `getLayoutInfo` method is fixed.
* \#164613, \#165321 - Drop event is not fired, when HTML node is overlapped with the other node is fixed.
* \#164629, \#165983 - When drag and drop the node from palette onto the canvas, another node gets selected is fixed.
* \#164777 - Selector needs to be cleared, if lane doesn't dropped into diagram is fixed.
* \#165214 - Snapping is not working for drawing tools is fixed.
* \#165788 - ScrollSetting's `horizontalOffset` and `verticalOffset` not working if we set as zero is fixed.
* \#165984 - Drop event's `target` argument value should be node when drop from symbol palette is fixed.
* \#166204 - Native node content not scaled properly is fixed.
* \#166533 - Exception on dragging overview handle is fixed.  
## ejDialog

### Bug Fixes
{:#dialog-bug-fixes}

* \#164463, \#167082 - The issue on rendering Dialog in a page having iframe has been fixed.
## ejDocumentEditor `Preview`

It is a JavaScript control that can be used to view documents similar to Microsoft Word. 

### Features
{:#ejdocumenteditor-features}
* \#165071 - Added `getSelectedText` method for retrieving the selected text from ejDocumentEditor.
 
### Bug Fixes
{:#ejdocumenteditor-bug-fixes}
* Document is now loading properly in Safari browser.
* Printing document is now working properly in Safari browser.
* Touch scrolling is now working properly in Edge browser.
* Searching hyperlink text is now working properly.
* Keyboard selection is now working properly in Edge and Internet Explorer browsers.
## ejDropDownList

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejdropdownlist-bug-fixes}

* \#166707 - The issue "When binding datasource to select dropdown unwanted list elements appears" has been resolved.
* \#164380, \#164382 - The issue "DropDownList popup hides when we focus the filter search in mobile device" has been resolved.
* \#164816- DropDownList displays the selected value correctly when enableSorting is set to true.


## ejFileExplorer

### Bug Fixes	
{:#ejfileexplorer-bug-fixes}

* \#165640, #165752 - Previously while providing the custom file type in AJAX response of read request, files were not loaded in view part of the FileExplorer. Now this issue has been fixed. 

## ejGantt

### Features
{:#ejgantt-features}

* \#164555 - Now support has been provided to render tasks with incorrect/empty parent IDs to the root level. 
* \#164024 - Now `taskbarClick` event will be triggered while clicking the taskbars.
* \#166671 - Now it is possible to export the Gantt control to excel sheet.
* \#166335 - Provided support to update the resource data dynamically using setModel

## ejGrid

### Features
{:#ejgrid-features}

*  \#165786 - Provided `beforeRowDrop` event support while drag and drop rows from source to destination. 


### Bug Fixes
{:#ejgrid-bug-fixes}

*  \#159701 - Date format is applied properly, while using both `locale` and `format` in Grid.
*  \#157627 - Now, prevented to render the `scrollbar` unnecessarily when show or hide the columns in grid using `columnChooser`.
*  \#166676 - Grid rendered properly when rendering the command column without `buttonOptions`. 
*  \#166355 - On scroll the grid content when `enableVirtualization` with `allowResizeToFit` enabled sample, grid displays properly.  
*  \#165118 - Now `windowonresize` works fine while enabling `summary` in Grid.
*  \#166365 - `Sorting` works fine when we click the edges of the header cell.
*  \#165118 - Grid model works fine when we set `locale` in `setModel`.
*  \#166926 - Prevented scrolling while select the grid row.
*  \#166030 - Grid works properly when render it by multiple times through button click while enabling `summaryRows`.
*  \#165604 - Grid last row border displays properly when we set `scrollSettings` through `setModel`.
*  \#166561 - Last page of the Grid displayed properly while scrolling .
*  \#165964 - Virtual pager details returns correct value when binding empty `dataSource`to Grid.  
*  \#166198 - `Filtering` working properly on complex binding sample.
*  \#161989 - Performance issue fixed while editing the records with more number of columns. 
*  \#166520 - Position of the `ejWaitingPopup` displays properly when using `editMode` as `externalForm` in `RemoteSave` Adaptor sample.
## ejGroupButton

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejgroupbutton-bug-fixes}

* \#164517 - `height` API value now properly set to GroupButton.
## ejHeatMap

### Features
{:#ejheatmap-features}

* RTL Support for HeatMap and Legend Control is added.
## ejKanban

### Features
{:#ejkanban-features}

* Support provided to group unassigned swimlane key values as user defined groups. 

## ejListBox

### Features
{:#ejlistbox-features}

* We have provided template support for ListBox with virtual scrolling using the newly added API `itemHeight` to customize the items.

### Bug fixes
{:#ejlistbox-bug-fixes}

* \#164562 - The issue with ListBox persistence on updating dataSource has been fixed.
## ejListView

### Features
{:#ejlistview-features}

* We have provided localization support for ListView header text.
## ejMap

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejmap-bug-fixes}
 
* \#163272  - Updating old markers with new markers are working properly while refreshing map.
 
 
## ejMaskEdit

### Bug Fixes	
{:#ejmaskedit-bug-fixes}

* \#166000 – At the initial time, MaskEdit value does not update properly when provide the mask format and custom character issue has been fixed.

## ejNavigationDrawer

### Bug fixes
{:#ejnavigationdrawer-bug-fixes}

* \#165031 - Rendering problem when Menu control is placed inside NavigationDrawer have been fixed.

## ejPager

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejpager-bug-fixes}

* \#165635 - Class name properly updated to Pager wrapper element on initialization.
## ejPdfViewer

### Features
{:#ejpdfviewer-features}

* \#163032 - Exposed `PageClicked` event in ejPdfViewer control.
* \#164281 - Provided support to restrict print and copy the content of the PDF document based on its encryption.
* \#155247, \#154831, \#158046, \#165087 - Support for editing and saving the AcroForms is added to the ejPdfViewer control.
* \#165408 - Provided support for rendering all the pages of the PDF document in the single interaction with the server.

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejpdfviewer-bug-fixes}

* \#164122 - PDF documents are rendered properly when multiple PDF viewer controls are added to the same web page.
* \#162811 - Single quotes are preserved properly in ejPdfViewer control.
* \#165646 - Text contents will be displayed properly in ejPdfViewer control.
* \#165906 - Page are rendered properly when we change the page fit options rapidly in ejPdfViewer control.
* \#166010 - Tooltip position will be relative to the header on scrolling through the browser.

## ejPivotChart

### Bug fixes
{:#ejpivotchart-bug-fixes}

* \#165426, #166392 - PivotChart series couldn't be plotted properly with JSON data from older version (v13.2) has been fixed now. 
* \#166948 - Filter dialog now appears properly when Grid height is large.
* \#166884 - Aggregation is now displayed properly for PivotGrid sample having `de-DE` and `es-ES` culture. 

## ejPivotClient

### Features
{:#ejpivotclient-features}

*  Label and value filtering support has been added for relational data sources at client mode. Previously this feature was available for OLAP data sources at both server and client mode.

## ejPivotGrid

### Bug fixes
{:#ejpivotgrid-bug-fixes}

* \#166884 - We can now export PivotGrid to PDF format having "Euro" currency symbol.

### Features
{:#ejpivotgrid-features}

*  Label and value filtering support has been added for relational data sources at client mode. Previously this feature was available for OLAP data sources at both server and client mode.   

## ejRadioButton

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejradiobutton-bug-fixes}

* \#166740 - Now RadioButton destroyed properly.
## ejReportViewer

### Features

* \#165414 – Now, the performance of page navigation process has been improved in ReportViewer.


### Bug Fixes	
{:#ejreportviewer-bug-fixes}

* \#163282 - Now, the page settings API options are working fine.
* \#163282 - Now, the page setup orientation works fine.
* \#161847 - The tooltip position is misplaced in IE8 browser issue has been fixed.
* \#161847 - The report position is misplaced, while navigating page in IE8 browser issue has been fixed.
* \#165884 – Now, the `FormatNumber` expression working fine with Custom Code.
* \#165213 – Now, the report parameter can be used inside the looping statement in custom code of ReportViewer.
* \#146053 – Now, the rectangle width has been updated properly when tablix placed inside the rectangle.
* \#166428 – Now, the tablix cell `Hidden` property works fine, when the cell model `Hidden` property has been set as True.
* \#166339 – Now, the chart legends are displayed properly when there is no legend title for chart report item.
* \#165213 – Resolved the exception, when we use aggregate function `Count` in query text.

### Breaking Changes

Data extension configuration syntax has been changed for maintaining the standards as like [`SQL Server Reporting Services (SSRS)`](https://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/ms155086.aspx#Procedures).

Before:

{% highlight xml %}

<SyncfusionDataExtension>
    <DataExtension>
      <Extensions>
        <add name="SSAS" assemblyName="Syncfusion.Reporting.DataExtensions.SSAS" type="Syncfusion.Reporting.DataExtensions.SSAS.SSASDataExtension"></add>
      </Extensions>
    </DataExtension>
</SyncfusionDataExtension>

{% endhighlight %}

Now:

{% highlight xml %}

<ReportingExtensions>
   <DataExtension>
        <Extension Name="SSAS" Assembly="Syncfusion.Reporting.DataExtensions.SSAS" Type="Syncfusion.Reporting.DataExtensions.SSAS.SSASDataExtension"/>
   </DataExtension>
</ReportingExtensions>

{% endhighlight %}

Use `Syncfusion.Reporting.Extension` namespace for `DataExtension` class instead of `Syncfusion.DataExtension.DataExtension`. It has been changed for maintaining the naming standard for custom extension.

## ejRibbon

### Features
{:#ejribbon-features}

* On-demand rendering support provided for ribbon tabs and backstage.

### Bug fixes
{:#ejribbon-bug-fixes}

* \#167011 - `removeTabGroupContent` is working after adding new tab group content. 
* \#166714 - Show/hide option provided for groups and items in it.
## ejSchedule

### Features
{:#ejSchedule-features}

* Month name(in short format) is displayed on the Schedule date header, when more than one month is rendered in the horizontal custom view.

### Breaking changes
{:#ejSchedule-breaking-changes}

* \#166818 - Day column in the Agenda view is localized correctly now, while switching to different cultures.

### Bug fixes
{:#ejschedule-bug-fixes}

* \#166087 - CRUD operations on appointment with template option is working properly when `showOverflowButton` is set to false.
* \#166479 - Date header will not misalign while rendering Schedule in horizontal orientation without the horizontal scroller.
* \#166805 - Custom view is rendering properly in horizontal orientation, when template option is enabled for work-cells.


## ejScroller

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejscroller-bug-fixes}

* \#158292 - Now `autoHide` API properly working in mobile devices.
* \#164669 - TypeScript definition for Scroller public methods added properly.
## ejSplitButton

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejsplitbutton-bug-fixes}

* \#166648 - In theme studio, SplitButton's menu content font color issues fixed.
## ejSpreadsheet

### Features
{:#ejspreadsheet-features}

* Provided support for Excel-Like Pivot Table.

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejspreadsheet-bug-fixes}

* \#161896 - Issue with selection misalignment when apply merge and wrap text in same cell is fixed.
* \#165134 - Issue with action complete event not fired when adding name manager through ribbon control is fixed.
* \#164753 - Issue with sheet name is not refreshed while using sheet name in formula is fixed.
* \#164469 - Issue with exporting the imported excel that contains empty cell value with custom format returns corrupted document is fixed.
* \#164463 - Issue with loading JSON data that contains table in loadFromJSON() throws script error is fixed.
* \#163761 - Issue with disable showRibbon and allowEditing on initial load throws script error is fixed.
* \#166916 - Issue with leading zeros are not maintained when cell has string type is fixed.
* \#166828 - Issue with MaxJSONLength exceeds on serialization of datasource which has more no of records is fixed.
* \#161896 - Issue with unwanted whitespace in merged cells with wrapped text is fixed.
* \#166504 - Issue with paste option is working using ribbon even after pressed escape key is fixed.
* \#163548 - Provided event for formula cells recalculation when updating its dependent cell value.
* \#162988 - Provided support to prevent action complete event and remove cell selection.
* \#163821 - Provided range of cells as an additional argument in custom formula function.
* \#165134 - Provided support for disable or enable resizing option in shape element(chart, picture).
## ejTab

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejtab-bug-fixes}

* \#166131 - The issue "When hovering the unselected tab items, tab control gets adjusted to another position(Material, high contrast and office-365 themes)" has been fixed.
* \#164009 - The issue "Scrollable tab displays incorrectly after resizing the window" has been fixed

## ejTimePicker

### Features
{:#ejtimepicker-features}

* \#165411 - Now validation can be achieved in TimePicker using `validationRules` and `validationMessages` API.
## ejTreeGrid

### Features
{:#ejtreegrid-features}

* \#161305 - Provided support for filtering data using filter menus.
* \#161198 - Provided support for rearranging the visible columns in Treegrid.

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejtreegrid-bug-fixes}
 
* \#166579 - Issue with `rowDragStop` event while canceling the event has been fixed.
* \#166690 - Toolbar renders with add and edit icons even when the toolbarItems array is empty has been fixed. 
* \#165100 - It is now possible to change column resize mode using `columnResizeSettings` property.
* \#166765 - Issue while changing self-referential data source via setModel has been fixed.



## ejTreeView

### Features
{:#ejtreeview-features}

* \#157634 – Provided the option to highlight the full row of TreeView node in TreeView control.

### Bug Fixes	
{:#ejtreeview-bug-fixes}

* \#165107 - The id and parentId are missing from TreeView ‘nodeClick’ event members issue has been fixed.

* \#164405 - The getTreeData() method does not return newly added nodes which is not have an id in TreeView control issue has been fixed. 

## ejWaitingPopup

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejwaitingpopup-bug-fixes}

* \#150096 -Provided responsive support for WaitingPopup control.
## Predictive Analytics

### Bug Fixes
{:#predictive-analytics-bug-fixes}

* \#167087 - Resolved the PMML 4.2 version compatibility issues with Naive Bayes model evaluator.
