---
title 		: Essential Studio for JavaScript 2016 Volume 3 Service Pack 1 Release Notes
description : Essential Studio for JavaScript 2016 Volume 3 Service Pack 1 Release Notes
platform 	: js
---

# Essential Studio for JavaScript Release Notes

{% include release-info.html date=site.releasedate.2016_vol_3_sp1 version=site.version.2016_vol_3_sp1 %} 



## ejBarcode

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejbarcode-bug-fixes}

* `PdfCode128BBarcode` is now working as expected.



## ejCalculate

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejcalculate-bug-fixes}

* \#163821 - MIN, MAX and TRANSPOSE formulas are working now properly.

## ejCheckbox

### Bug Fixes	
{:#ejcheckbox-bug-fixes}

* \#164523 - Now Checkbox can be disabled using `disabled` attribute.
## ejCirculargauge
 
### Bug Fixes
{:#ejcircular-bug-fixes}
 
* \#165319  - Background color for half-circular gauge is now applied properly.



## ejDataManager

### Bug Fixes
{:#datamanager-bug-fixes}

* \#161956 - CRUD url will be triggered when the `Datamanager` with instance of ej.remoteSaveAdaptor is  set through setModel 
## ejDatePicker

### Bug Fixes	
{:#ejdatepicker-bug-fixes}

* \#163377 - Header text color now properly applied to calender's header text in theme studio.
## ejDateTimePicker

### Bug Fixes	
{:#ejdatetimepicker-bug-fixes}

* \#164270 - Date and time value can be selected from DateTimePicker on mobile devices.
* \#163377 - Header text color now properly applied to DateTimePicker's header text in theme studio.
## ejDiagram

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejdiagram-bug-fixes}
 
* \#163575 - Context menu id rendered with menuItem's `text` instead of menuItem's `name` is fixed.
* \#164097 - Label editor not positioned properly when rendering overview control before diagram control is fixed.
* \#164133 - `MultiSelect` constraints for lane is now working properly at runtime.
* \#164467 - While drawing text node at runtime, customized `textBlock` properties are now reflected properly.
* \#164368 - No changes occurred while setting the `enableRouting` API in the `getLayoutInfo` method is fixed.
* \#164613, \#165321 - Drop event is not fired, when HTML node is overlapped with the other node is fixed.
* \#164629, \#165983 - When drag and drop the node from palette onto the canvas, another node gets selected is fixed.
* \#164777 - Selector needs to be cleared, if lane doesn't dropped into diagram is fixed.
* \#165214 - Snapping is not working for drawing tools is fixed.
## ejDocumentEditor `Preview`

It is a JavaScript control that can be used to view documents similar to Microsoft Word. 

### Features
{:#ejdocumenteditor-features}
* \#165071 - Added `getSelectedText` method for retrieving the selected text from ejDocumentEditor.
 
### Bug Fixes
{:#ejdocumenteditor-bug-fixes}
* Document is now loading properly in Safari browser.
## ejDropDownList

### Bug fixes
{:#ejdropdownlist-bug-fixes}

* \#164380, \#164382 - The issue "DropDownList popup hides when we focus the filter search in mobile device" has been resolved.
* \#164816- DropDownList displays the selected value correctly when enableSorting is set to true.

## ejFileExplorer

### Bug Fixes	
{:#ejfileexplorer-bug-fixes}

* \#165640, #165752 - Previously while providing the custom file type in AJAX response of read request, files were not loaded in view part of the FileExplorer. Now this issue has been fixed. 

## ejGantt

### Features
{:#ejgantt-features}

* \#164555 - Validations for rendering tasks with incorrect parent task ID values have been implemented.
* \#164024 - Now `taskbarClick` event will be triggered while clicking the taskbars.


## ejGrid

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejgrid-bug-fixes}

*  \#162571 - When selecting row using Shift+Click initially, `selectedRowIndexes` and `selectedRecords` properties working fine.
*  \#163809,\#164451,\#164837 - `NgTemplate` works fine, after using `refreshContent` method.
*  \#163992 - Editing using keyboard action works perfectly, when the edit Form is already in `editMode`.
*  \#164609 - On edit or add a record in `frozenColumns` enabled sample, the `summaryRow` displays properly. 
*  \#165055 - On `contextMenu` right click over the template column the row is selected.  
*  \#164846 - Now the `cellSave` event triggered, when pressing the Enter key in last row edited cell of the grid.
*  \#163289 - Last record of the Grid printed properly on landscape mode, when `allowScrolling` is enabled in grid.
*  \#165334 - `RecordClick` performance issue has been fixed.
*  \#161009 - Resizing the column works fine when we set `allowResizing` and `allowResizeToFit` through `setModel`.
*  \#165492 - Filtering is performed based on the value typed in the excel filter search bar, while pressing Enter key in ExcelFilter Dialog.
*  \#162746 - Filter icon get displayed when we set the position as relative.
*  \#161891 - Now `ng-click` works fine when we bind the `dataSource` through `setModel`.
*  \#163771 - Row drag and drop of the grid working properly when `showAddNewRow` property is enabled in grid.
*  \#161034 - Grid displayed fine when we set `currentPage` in virtual Scrolling.
*  \#163421,\#165658 - The validation error message of `dropdown` column displays properly without hiding the dropdown list value.
*  \#164952 - Filter columns updated properly, when using excel filter.
*  \#164716 - Suggestion checkbox works fine, when we filter the record through custom filter for date column.
*  \#164438-  We can scroll the Grid directly to specific row depends on `selectedRowIndex`.

## ejGroupButton

### Bug Fixes	
{:#ejgroupbutton-bug-fixes}

* \#164517 - `height` property works properly in GroupButton control.
## ejKanban

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejkanban-bug-fixes}

* \#162103 - Searching is working with additional fields in search settings.
* \#164008 - Improper swim-lane grouping issue is resolved while changing swim lane dynamically.
* \#164811 - Total count is displaying properly when we initially sets collapsed Column. 
* \#165894 - Add card context menu item is displaying for elements except card.
* \#165898 - Scrolling is working after reaching the last swim lane.
## ejListBox

### Bug fixes
{:#ejlistbox-bug-fixes}

* \#164562 - Issue with ListBox persistence on updating dataSource has been fixed

## ejMap

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejmap-bug-fixes}
 
* \#163272  - Updating old markers with new markers are working properly while refreshing map. 
 
 
## ejNavigationDrawer

### Bug fixes
{:#ejnavigationdrawer-bug-fixes}

* \#165031 - Rendering problem when Menu control is placed inside NavigationDrawer have been fixed.

## ejPdfViewer

### Features
{:#ejpdfviewer-features}

* \#163032 - Exposed page click event in ejPdfViewer control.
* \#164281 - Provided support to restrict print and copy the content of the PDF document based on its encryption.

### Bug Fixes
{:#sfpdfviewercontrol-bug-fixes}

* \#164122 - PDF documents are rendered properly when multiple PDF viewer controls are added to the same web page.
* \#162811 - Single quotes are preserved properly in PDF viewer control.
## ejPivotClient

### Bug fixes
{:#ejpivotclient-bug-fixes}

* \#165734 - Custom object parameter missing while performing some operation in PivotClient has been fixed.
* Members missing on binding `Account` dimension has been fixed. 

## ejPivotGrid

### Bug fixes
{:#ejpivotgrid-bug-fixes}

* Hiding sub-total is now working properly for relational datasource in server side.
* Grouping bar functionality issue in server mode has been fixed.

## ejReportViewer

### Bug Fixes	
{:#ejreportviewer-bug-fixes}

* \#I163282 - Now, the page settings API options are working fine.
* \#I163282 - Now, the page setup orientation is works fine.
* \#I161847 - The tooltip position is misplaced in IE8 browser issue has been fixed.
* \#I161847 - The Report position is misplaced while page navigating in IE8 browser issue has been fixed. 
## ejSchedule

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejschedule-bug-fixes}

* \#164887 - All appointments are rendering properly now, while the window resizing stops.
* \#165179 - Cell height is updating correctly, when more number of appointments are rendered in the same cell with `showOverflowButton` property set to *false*.
* \#165179 - The height of the appointment clone is updating properly, while resizing it.
* \#165233 - Date ranges are generated correctly while using recurrence editor control.
* \#126276 - GitHub repository is updated with the localization texts of `ejRecurrenceEditor` control for all cultures.
* \#164878 - `resize` event is made to trigger after updating the appointment time.
* \#164986 - The date ranges are shown correctly now, while performing navigation.
* \#164647 - Schedule is rendering properly now in `es-MX` culture.
* \#163768 - Appointment width is getting adjusted properly now, while resizing it.
* \#163759 - Appointments width is adjusted correctly when two or more appointments rendered in the same cell with same duration.


## ejScroller

### Bug Fixes	
{:#ejscroller-bug-fixes}

* \#158292 - Now `autoHide` API properly working in mobile devices. 
* \#164669 - TypeScript definition added for Scroller public methods.
## ejSplitButton

### Bug Fixes	
{:#ejsplitbutton-bug-fixes}

* \#163377 - Font color of SplitButton menu content now set as per default font color in theme studio
## ejSpreadsheet

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejspreadsheet-bug-fixes}

* \#161896 - Issue with selection misalignment when apply merge and wrap text in same cell is fixed.
* \#165134 - Issue with action complete event not fired when adding name manager through ribbon control is fixed.
* \#164753 - Issue with sheet name is not refreshed while using sheet name in formula is fixed.
* \#164469 - Issue with exporting the imported excel that contains empty cell value with custom format returns corrupted document is fixed.
* \#164463 - Issue with loading JSON data that contains table in loadFromJSON() throws script error is fixed.
* \#163761 - Issue with disable the showRibbon and allowEditing an initial load it throws script error is fixed.
* \#163548 - Improved the event for formula cells recalculation when updating its dependent cell value.
* \#162988 - Provided support for prevent action complete event and remove cell selection.
* \#163821 - Provided range of cells as an additional argument in custom formula function.
* \#165134 - Provided support for disable or enable resizing option in shape element(chart, picture).
## ejTab

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejtab-bug-fixes}

* \#164009 - The issue "Scrollable tab displays incorrectly after resizing the window" has been fixed
## ejTreeView

### Bug Fixes	
{:#ejtreeview-bug-fixes}

* \#165107 - The id and parentId are missing from TreeView ‘nodeClick’ event members issue has been fixed.

* \#164405 - The getTreeData() method does not return newly added nodes which is not have an id in TreeView control issue has been fixed. 

## ejWaitingPopup

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejwaitingpopup-bug-fixes}

* \#150096 - Provided responsive support for WaitingPopup control
