---
title 		: Essential Studio for JavaScript 2017 Volume 2 Service Pack 2 Release Notes
description : Essential Studio for JavaScript 2017 Volume 2 Service Pack 2 Release Notes
platform 	: js
---

# Essential Studio for JavaScript Release Notes

{% include release-info.html date=site.releasedate.2017_vol_2_sp2 version=site.version.2017_vol_2_sp2 %} 



## Common

### Bug Fixes	
{:#bug-fixes}

* \#173091 - Issue with control re-rendering in KnockoutJS is fixed.
## ejCalculate

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejcalculate-bug-fixes}

* \#180019 – Dependent formula cells are now updated properly when the value of precedent cell is changed.

## ejChart


### Bug Fixes
{:#ejChart-bug-fixes}

* \#180315 – Chart with single data point in [`category axes`](https://help.syncfusion.com/api/js/ejchart#members:primaryxaxis-valuetype) is now rendering properly, when [`enableCanvasRendering`](https://help.syncfusion.com/api/js/ejchart#members:enablecanvasrendering) property is set to true.
* \#180511 – Data labels are now center aligned to the bubble series.
* \#180808 – Now the tooltip is working properly, while rendering the chart inside the grid control.
* \#181702 – Now the data points in [`dateTime category axes`](https://help.syncfusion.com/api/js/ejchart#members:primaryxaxis-valuetype) are rendering properly, when toggling the legend.
* F110871 – Chart control is now rendering properly with empty data source.

## ejDiagram


### Bug Fixes
{:#ejDiagram-bug-fixes}

* \#181438 – Exception raised while rendering `contextMenu` in different culture is fixed.
* \#180343 – The hidden label is not exported properly in SVG format is fixed.
* \#178994 – `nodeTemplate` method is now working properly while loading the diagram.
* \#178770 – Docking is not proper with BPMN Shapes after performing save and load is fixed.
* \#180332 – Z-order is now working properly when performing multiple times.

 

## ejFileExplorer

### Bug Fixes	
{:#ejfileexplorer-bug-fixes}

* \#178704 - As per the applied locale, Folder column header text will change.
* \#180493 - When the duplicate file name exists, Selected and unselected Items were not returned properly issue has been fixed.


## ejGantt

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejgantt-bug-fixes}

* \#180638 – Row alignment issue in Gantt has been fixed.
* \#181547 - Issue in updating the duration of milestone task has been fixed.
* \#180215 - Issue in exporting Gantt as Excel file with resources has been fixed.






## ejGrid

### Features
{:#ejGrid-features}

*  \#177543 - Column renders fine with proper width when `allowResizeToFit` set as true.
*  \#173146, \#174120, \#176687 , \#182452 - The pixel conversion of column width is prevented when setting the column width as percentage.


### Bug Fixes
{:#ejGrid-bug-fixes}

*  \#176468 - The `mergeHeaderCellInfo` event is triggered even after refreshing the header with `refreshHeader()`.
*  \#180781 - When batch editing is enabled, the context menu item Save and Cancel are shown properly in context menu after editing a cell.
*  \#181250 - Column chooser renders fine with improper quotes provided for `headerText`.
*  \#180822 – Checkbox selection works fine with `dataSource` as empty.
*  \#181137 - `maxFilterChoices` works fine for Grid with `allowVirtualScrolling` as true.
*  \#181006 - Grid renders fine with no script error when `allowGrouping` and `showSummary` is enabled, and `dataSource` as empty.
*  \#177897 - Deprecated argument `data` as `rowData` in the Grid's events.
*  \#180265, \#180517 - Changed the font-family "Segoe UI" to "Helvetica Neue" as it's not available in MAC OS.
*  \#180518 - No confirmation dialog is shown when clicking the print icon in grid toolbar with `editMode` set as `batch`.
*  \#177509 - Scrollbar refreshed properly when we call the `refreshContent()` method.
*  \#179768 - Dragging a row is possible without selecting the row.
*  \#175094 - The keyboard navigation works fine after scrolling the scroller to bottom.
*  \#173718 - Multiple grid exporting works fine.
## ejKanban

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejkanban-bug-fixes}

*  \#180821 – Script error issue is resolved while using remote data with filtering and enableTotalCount.

## ejMenu


### Bug Fixes

{:#ejmenu-bug-fixes}

* \#180805 - The Context menu is will not be hidden even, when we right click at the bottom of target.
## ejPager


### Bug Fixes

{:#ejpager-bug-fixes}

* \#181957 - Lint error validation failure in Pager has been fixed now.
## ejPdfViewer

### Features
{:#ejPdfViewer-features}

* \#178539 - Provided support to restrict editing of form fields based on restriction summary available in the PDF document. 
* \#174628, #178539 - Provided support to maintain the form fields as read only in the PDF documents, if it has read only property set.



### Bug Fixes
{:#ejPdfViewer-bug-fixes}

* \#164281 - Restricted the page extraction based on the settings available in the encrypted PDF documents.
* \#180342 - The proper casing is provided to the keys in the AJAX request during the download operations.
* \#179586 - The colors of the image now preserve properly while rendering the PDF document.






## ejPivotClient

### Bug fixes	
{:#ejpivotclient-bug-fixes}

* \#180614 - Report manipulation is done properly with measure groups.

### Features
{:#ejpivotclient-features}

* \#179127, #179216 - KPI support has been provided for OLAP data source in Server Mode.

## ejPivotGrid

### Features
{:#ejpivotgrid-features}

* \#180060 - Support provided to set the properties of unbind fields.
* \#177805 - Two way binding is possible in AngularJS.
* \#175739 - User can sort Row/Column by date type in relational database.
* \#175521, #178335 - User can group Row/Column by date type in relational database (only for Client Mode).

## ejRibbon

### Features	
{:#ejribbon-features}

* \#178783 - Provided the cssClass API for ejRibbon, to customize the control appearance.
## ejRTE

### Bug Fixes

{:#ejrte-bug-fixes}

* \#181420 - Now you can set `enableXHTML` property is set to true and import a file without getting any console errors.
* \#180585 - New row can be added when tab key is pressed at the end of the table; that has only one row
* \#180585 - When new row is added in the table imported from word file, the styles will be copied to the newly created row.
## ejSchedule

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejschedule-bug-fixes}

* \#131046 - Issue with Scheduler days not navigating correctly, when `showWeekend` is set to false has been fixed.
* \#181230 - Header cells are not misaligned now, when work-week view is rendered with 7 days.
## ejSignature

### Bug Fixes	
{:#ejSignature-bug-fixes}

* \#180815 - Strokes breaking issue on mouse interaction in signature is fixed.


## ejSpellCheck

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejspellcheck-bug-fixes}

* \#178026 - Provided support to pass additional parameters to the server action through client-side event arguments.

## ejSpreadsheet

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejspreadsheet-bug-fixes}

* \#180749 - Issue with named range and misalignment in the name manager dialog is fixed.
* \#178198 - Issue with accounting format while importing is fixed.
* \#180029 - Issue with chart element, Hyperlink and filtering action complete arguments are not proper is fixed.
## ejTextboxes

### Features
{:#ejtextboxes-features}

* \#180057 - Provided the `positivePattern` support for ejNumericTextbox.
## ejTimePicker


### Bug Fixes

{:#ejtimepicker-bug-fixes}

* \#179540 - In TimePicker, font spacing is now corrected based on material theme standard.

* \#180395 - In TimePicker, number of hours resets when the right arrow key pressed issue has been fixed.
## ejTreeGrid

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejtreegrid-bug-fixes}

* \#180866 – Alignment issues with expand/collapse icons in row template has been fixed.






## ejTreeView

### Bug Fixes	
{:#ejtreeview-bug-fixes}

* \#181431 - The issue “Duplicate Nodes are rendered when set the parentId and Id as 0” has been fixed.
* \#181880 - The issue “The nodeDrag event does not have correct target information when drag on the insert line” has been fixed.

