---
title 		: Essential Studio for JavaScript 2017 Volume 1 Release Notes
description : Essential Studio for JavaScript 2017 Volume 1 Release Notes
platform 	: js
---

# Essential Studio for JavaScript Release Notes

{% include release-info.html date=site.releasedate.2017_vol_1 version=site.version.2017_vol_1 %} 



## Common

### Features

{:#common-features}

* \#164731 - Provided the “Theme Studio” as part of “Essential Studio” pack. That helps you to explore the files of Theme Studio and use it in offline.

* \#168424 - Provided the EJ appearance to text area element by adding “e-textarea” class to it.

* Provided the EJ appearance like watermark text for “e-textbox” class.

* We have enhanced the EJ Material theme by providing drop shadows, bevels, animations and improved structural changes for our EJ components, to meet the Material standard.


### Bug fixes
{:#common-bug-fixes}

* \#169892- If we are rendering the control with require scripts and l10 localization file then it throws script error- issue fixed

* \#169040 – Script error has been solved while destroying our EJ components using the same control’s event.

### Breaking changes
{:#common-breaking-changes}

* \#164989, \#166370, \#168342, \#170904  - Now, the tap event will be triggered when clicking on the target and move a little bit, then release the mouse. Also, click event target will be returned as Tap event target.  

* \#169450 - Optimized the [ej-global](https://github.com/syncfusion/ej-global) github repository. Syncfusion-ej-global package provides the most frequent cultures files and Syncfusion-ej-global-all package provides all the culture files from this repository. 

* **Electron** application has been removed from Essential Studio JavaScript build, yet we continue providing support for it.

## Barcode

### Features
{:#Barcode-features}

* UPC Barcode support have been implemented.

## ejButton

### Features
{:#ejbutton-features}

* \#163998 -  Primary Button support provided in Button control for EJ themes.

## ejCalculate

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejcalculate-bug-fixes}

* \#166894 - Dependent formula cells are now properly updated when value of the precedent cells are changed.
* \#169807 - The nested formulas which contains the IF and OR combination is now working properly.
## ejChart

### Features
{:#ejchart-features}

* Provided support to render box and whisker series type.

### Bug fixes
{:#ejchart-bug-fixes}
 
* \#168427 - Chart is now updating properly if the data source is set through this approach: [`$("#container").ejChart{"option",{"datasource",dataCollection}} });`](https://help.syncfusion.com/js/api-configuration.html).
* \#167346 - Chart is animating properly when referring the transit.js file in the application.
* \#166594 - Chart is animating properly when we switch from other series types to initial series type.
* \#171861 - Marker in chart will not clip now, when [`plotOffset`](https://help.syncfusion.com/api/js/ejchart#members:primaryxaxis-plotoffset) property and trackball are specified.

## ejCheckbox

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejcheckbox-bug-fixes}

* \#170894 - Two-way binding support properly working in Angular2 - Checkbox.


### Features
{:#ejcheckbox-features}

* \#164906 - Two-way binding support provided for `checkState` property.
## ejDataManager

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejdatamanager-bug-fixes}

* \#167550, #127402 -  When the filtering field set with the "single quotation" in the Grid, script error is thrown has been rectified in the RTE.


## ejDatePicker

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejdatepicker-bug-fixes}

* \#169847 -  DatePicker is compatible with ISO 8601 Date Formats.

## ejDateRangePicker

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejdaterangepicker-bug-fixes}

* \#171570 -  Now DateRangePicker popup shown properly at page bottom.

### Breaking Changes
{:#ejdaterangepicker-breaking-changes}

* `onChange` event name has been renamed to `change`.

## ejDateTimePicker

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejdatetimepicker-bug-fixes}

* \#171028, \#172137 -  DateTimePicker disabled when `disabled` attribute added in input element.

## ejDiagram

### Features
{:#ejdiagram-features}

* \#157418,\#161103 - Hyperlink support for nodes and connectors is added.
* \#161002,\#162696,\#154120 - Support to export the diagram into image format with stretch option is provided.
* \#166357 - Support to export the diagram into multiple pages/images is added.
* \#143359,\#153194,\#153251 - Support to render the label in SVG layer is provided.
* \#168204 - ImageUrl support for context menu items is added.
* Overflow support for label is added.
* Built-in support for UML activity shapes is provided.

### Bug fixes
{:#ejdiagram-bug-fixes}

* \#168698 - Exception raised while connecting BPMN `DataObject` shape to any other shapes is fixed.
* \#167789 - Delay arguments are is now working properly in `autoScrollChange` event.
* \#168207 - Node’s `gradient` is now appears properly while show/hide the overview.
* \#127489 - BPMN shapes in symbol palette not scaled properly is fixed.
* \#167666 - Labels textbox size keep on increasing with every key press in Firefox browser is fixed.
* \#167916 - Issue with resizing the lane is fixed.
* \#168094 - HTML content is now removed while removing the group node.
* \#168896 - Ungrouped shapes interaction not working as expected is fixed.
* \#168698 - Exception raised while connecting the BPMN data object to other BPMN shape is fixed.
* \#169812 - Exception raised while removing connectors in the `connectorSourceChange` and `connectorTargetChange` event.
* \#168873 - Overview rectangle is not updated while zooming the diagram is fixed.
* \#170486 - BPMN Shape's with `rotateAngle` is not rendered properly at initial rendering is fixed.

## ejDialog

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejdialog-bug-fixes}

* \#167682  -  Script error on resizing page having Dialog have been resolved.
* \#167861  -  Issue with rendering Dialog element in a page having when RTE Dialog control has been fixed.
## ejDocumentEditor `Preview`

It is a JavaScript control that can be used to view documents similar to Microsoft Word. We have discontinued this control which is created based on jQuery. We have planned to create the same control based on pure JavaScript for the best performance and to meet the modern web frameworks. For the need of existing users, individual script file has been shipped with this version.
## ejDropDownList

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejdropdownlist-bug-fixes}

* \#168755 -  The issue "DropDownList check box change event argument value was not maintained" has been resolved.
* \#170405 -  The issue "Unable to clear selection range upon clicking outside the selection, once we have set a previously enabled font family" has been rectified.
## ejFileExplorer

### Bug Fixes	
{:#ejfileexplorer-bug-fixes}

* \#F128422 - Selected items arguments are now working properly in `beforeUpload` event.

* \#169660 -  Long file path goes behind of folder icon issue fixed.

* \#169456 -  Ordering the files using size option does not work issue has been fixed. 

* \#171178 -  Unselect event not triggered properly in FileExplorer has been fixed.
## ejGantt

### Features
{:#ejgantt-features}

* \#167672 – Now it is possible to set the position of the newly added row using the `editSettings.rowPosition` property.
* \#166335, \#168662 – Now it is possible to update the resource collection at run time.
* \#170609 – Now it is possible to change the start day of the week in week timescale mode using the `scheduleHeaderSettings.weekStartDay` property.
*	Now it possible to change the timescale unit size across all the timescale modes using `scheduleHeaderSettings.timescaleUnitSize` property.
* \#169242 - Now it is possible to edit the baseline start and end date columns.
* \#169242 - Now baselines will lie in the working hours of a project if the time information is not provided in the baseline dates.
*	Now it is possible to change the taskbar height using the `taskbarHeight` property.
 

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejgantt-bug-fixes}

* \#168361 – Issue with localizing the predecessor type texts in add/edit dialogs has been fixed.
* \#168361 – Issue with localizing the predecessor type texts in add/edit dialogs has been fixed.
* \#169453, \#170498, \#171358– Alignment issues in Gantt when changing the zooming levels in browser has been fixed.
* \#170059 – Issue with row drag event not canceling has been fixed.
* \#169913 – Issue with Gantt not rendering while referring jQuery version 1.10.2 has been fixed.
* \#168361 – Localization support has been provided for the predecessor type field in add/edit dialogs.

## ejGrid

### Features
{:#ejGrid-features}

*  \#169533 - Provided column level text wrap support.
*  \#169211 - Provided Virtual scrolling support for Row Template.


### Bug Fixes
{:#ejGrid-bug-fixes}

*  \#170659 - Scroller displays while navigating between pages, if displayed initially before navigation.
*  \#171611 - Grid renders perfectly while using adaptors with auto generated columns.
*  \#170521 - `currentViewData` sets correctly when `enableVirtualization` is true.
*  \#170954 - `getSelectedRecords()` method returns the records when `allowPaging` enabled.
*  \#170615 - Resize works fine with RequireJS.
*  \#170342 - Record values obtained correctly while editing a record through `editMode` as `batch` after expand and collapse a row.
*  \#170051 - Column `width` is updating properly when `visible` is false.
*  \#170057 - Date format is applied properly for edited values when the `format` is set in `editParams`.
*  \#170091 - Confirmation dialog is not shown for pressing `cancel` button when `showConfirmDialog` is false.
*  \#168905 - Multi Delete works fine in Checkbox selection feature even if `selectionType` not mentioned explicitly.
*  \#169798 - Grid behaves responsive after setting `minWidth` when rendering in bootstrap modal. 
*  \#169341 - The method `_refreshHeader` is changed from `private` method to `public` method.
*  \#169724, \#170503 - Scrollable Grid works fine while selecting first page data from last page.
*  \#168273 - Column `type` is re-updated properly after updating the `dataSource`.
*  \#156750 - Filter bar text is aligning properly in Ionic APK.
*  \#169381 - Grid works fine with drag and drop when we enable `allowRowDragAndDrop` and `allowScrolling`.
*  \#169267 - Batch editing is working properly with `field` enabled `template` column.
*  \#156750 - In Ionic APK, image column and other columns will no more be overlapped in row template sample
*  \#164989, \#166370, \#168342, \#170904 - Tap event is triggered when `mousedown` and `mousemove` is on the target.
*  \#170093 - Summary template is aligning properly when using `frozenColumns` in RTL.
## ejHeatMap

### Features
{:#ejheatmap-features}

* Tooltip support for HeatMap control is added.
## ejKanban

### Features
{:#ejkanban-features}

* Responsiveness support improved for Tablet mode.

### Bug fixes
{:#ejkanban-bug-fixes}

*  \#170062 - `addCard` public method was working properly on empty dataSource.
*  \#170099 - Arrow keys navigation are working with in input box and text area of Kanban Dialog.
*  \#169793 - Auto scroll operation was not happening continuously after dropping the dragged card.
*  \#169802 - Script error is not occurring while dropping a card after performing search operation.

## ejListBox

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejlistbox-bug-fixes}

* \#168189 -  Issue with updating model value for ListBox on checkAll() and uncheckAll() methods have been fixed.
## ejListView

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejlistview-bug-fixes}

* \#168972 -  Issue with setting empty datasource from set model has been fixed
## ejMaskEdit

### Bug Fixes	
{:#ejmaskedit-bug-fixes}

* \#168040 –  MaskEdit control throws scripts error while perform cut operation issue has been fixed.

* \#168104 –  While change the value in MaskEdit, change event did not triggered properly in mobile devices issue has been fixed.

## ejMenu


### Features
{:#ejmenu-features}

* \#162041 Enhanced responsive support for Menu based on desktop and mobile mode.
* Provided API overflowHeight and overflowWidth for setting height and width of overflow popup.
* Provided events for overflow popup open and close.


### Bug Fixes

{:#ejmenu-bug-fixes}

* \#155457 -  The issue "Menu items are not aligned properly in page end" has been fixed.
## ejNavigationDrawer

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejnavigationdrawer-bug-fixes}

* \#167591 -  Issue with destroying NavigationDrawer has been fixed.
## ejPdfViewer

### Features
{:#ejpdfviewer-features}

* \#167519 - Provided support for rendering the rotated pages.
* \#164080 - Provided support for the texture brush rendering.
* \#165409, #168750 - Provided support for initializing ejPdfViewer control with PDF document name.
* \#170781 - Provided support for unloading the PDF document being displayed.
* \#170826 - Provided support for alert the user if the PDF document has been edited.


### Bug Fixes
{:#ejpdfviewer-bug-fixes}

* \#165666 - Text elements are rendering properly while exporting the particular PDF document pages as images.
* \#166120 - Images are rendering properly in a particular PDF document.
* \#168409 - Horizontal scroll bar will be disabled whenever the width of the PDF document page is smaller than the width of the ejPdfViewer control.
* \#165087 – Form field textbox borders are aligned properly on loading the PDF document containing form fields in the ejPdfViewer control.
* \#168244 - Memory consumption was optimized on loading the PDF document as stream.
* \#168896 - No more typo error occurs in the definition of member’s data types in the API UG documentation. 
* \#170217 - The waiting popup get hidden properly while resizing the ejPdfViewer control.
* \#169954 - The dropdown fields are rendered properly in the correct position.
* \#170393 - Script error is no longer been thrown when enter key is pressed for long time in Text search.



## ejPivotChart

### Bug fixes	
{:#ejpivotchart-bug-fixes}

* \#168979 - We can now export PivotChart control with background color as transparent.

### Features
{:#ejpivotchart-features}

* \#166399, #167266 - Provided object binding support in model for all Pivot controls working in server mode.
## ejPivotClient

### Bug fixes	
{:#ejpivotclient-bug-fixes}

* \#151437 - Compression/de-compression issue in "Czech" localized cube has been fixed.
* \#168748 - PivotChart inside PivotClient can be rendered when the value contains "kWh". 
* \#I171892 - Localization labels are now corrected for Report based dialogs. 

### Features
{:#ejpivotclient-features}

* \#166399, #167266 - Provided object binding support in model for all Pivot controls working in server mode.
*  Provided size option to render PivotClient in various size by default. 


## ejPivotGauge

### Features
{:#ejpivotgauge-features}

* \#166399, #167266 - Provided object binding support in model for all Pivot controls working in server mode.
## ejPivotGrid

### Bug fixes	
{:#ejpivotgrid-bug-fixes}

* \#168566 - Provided trigger event while performing Pivot button drag and drop operation. 
* \#168032 - Issues while using frozen headers has been fixed. 
* \#170757 - Script error occurred while performing filter action using advanced filter option has been fixed.
* \#171694 - Column resizing is now working properly with excel-like layout. 
* \#171693 - Calculated fields are now working properly with German culture.
* \#169557 - 'Grand Total' and 'Value' label values are now localized properly. 

### Features
{:#ejpivotgrid-features}

* \#165252 - Expand/collapse support during filter and sort operations has been provided for OLAP data source in server mode. 
* \#142406, #143465 - Support for sorting columns and rows by value has been provided for relational data source in client mode. 
* \#166399, #167266 - Provided object binding support in model for all Pivot controls working in server mode.
*  Excel-like advance filtering support has been provided for relational data source in server mode. 

## ejPivotTreeMap `Preview`

The PivotTreeMap control lets the user to visualize OLAP data in the form of nested nodes in hierarchical order with the ability to drill up and down.

### Bug fixes	
{:#ejpivottreemap-bug-fixes}

* \170396 - Range value showing "NaN" while performing drill operation has been fixed. 

### Features
{:#ejpivottreemap-features}

* \#166399, #167266 - Provided object binding support in model for all Pivot controls working in server mode.
## ejRangeNavigator

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejrangenavigator-bug-fixes}
 
* \#170507 - Slider will not hide now when start and end values are same in [`selectedRangeSettings`](https://help.syncfusion.com/api/js/ejrangenavigator#members:selectedrangesettings) and [`scrollRangeSettings`](https://help.syncfusion.com/api/js/ejrangenavigator#members:scrollrangesettings) properties.

## ReportViewer
### Features
* \#162640 – Provided exporting support using Web Components in EJ ReportViewer.

### Bug Fixes    
{:#reportviewer-bug-fixes}
* \#168438 - Now, padding has been applied properly for Textbox ReportItem.
* \#169495 - The missing page setup localization text has been added in ReportViewer locale file.
* \#168598 – The Shared Datasource reports are working fine while drill through actions.
* \#168438 – Now, Textbox borders are applied properly in Textbox ReportItem.
* \#168438 - Fixed the textbox alignment issue with chrome browser.
* \#170045 - Now, Chart data label format will work properly when specify the label format.
* \#170601 - Now, Condition expressions are working fine in Tablix Group visibility.
## ejRibbon

### Features
{:#ejribbon-features}

* Backstage horizontal scrolling support provided.
* QAT independent support provided without mentioning in tab controls.

### Breaking changes
{:#ejribbon-breaking-changes}

* \#167011 - [`addTabGroupContent`](https://help.syncfusion.com/api/js/ejribbon#methods:addtabgroupcontent) [`removeTabGroupContent`](https://help.syncfusion.com/api/js/ejribbon#methods:removetabgroupcontent)  public method parameters are updated. 
* Spell issue is corrected with the public method [`updateBackstageItem`](https://help.syncfusion.com/api/js/ejribbon#methods:updatebackstageitem).

### Bug fixes
{:#ejribbon-bug-fixes}

* \#169814 - Resizing with application tab is now working properly.
* \#170124 - Ribbon application menu shown properly in responsive mode.
* \#167011 - Content is properly added using `addTabGroupContent` public method. 
* \#167011 - `removeTabGroupContent`  is working with content index specified.
* \#167011 - `addTabGroupContent` is working after adding new tab group content with already existed index. 
* \#168001 - Expand collapse behavior is working when tab used inside of backstage.
* \#168019 - Backstage page rendering issue is resolved with unobtrusive mode.
* \#167251 - Adaptive was working after removing application tab using `removeApplicationTab` method.  

## ejRTE

### Bug Fixes

{:#ejrte-bug-fixes}

* \#166352 - The issue "Change event doesn't trigger while pasting the content in RTE" has been fixed.
* \#168102 – The issue "Specific symbols are not able to find using find and replace plugin in RTE" has been rectified.
* \#168291, #170082, #170863, #171096 –  The issue "Tooltip in Toolbar control is not hidden properly for certain events" has been fixed.
* \#170405 - The issue "Unable to clear selection range upon clicking outside the selection, once we have set a previously enabled font family" has been rectified.
## ejSchedule

### Breaking Changes
{:#ejSchedule-breakingchanges}

* To improve the performance of the Scheduler's initial rendering, we have changed the rendering order of the appointment window. Therefore, to customize the default appointment window - we suggest to provide the necessary customization codes within the `appointmentWindowOpen` event instead of `create` event.

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejschedule-bug-fixes}  

* \#166805 - Schedule is aligned properly and the appointment will not disappear now in Firefox and IE browser.
* \#166479 - Custom view is rendering properly in horizontal orientation, when template option is enabled for work-cells.
* \#168919 - Appointments in Agenda view are sorted based on date and time.
* \#168394 - Touch event will not trigger now, while clicking and holding an appointment’s right border without resize cursor.
* \#167641 - Time in the cloned appointment is updating correctly, while dragging in high resolution machine.
* \#168636 - Long day appointments are rendering correctly now, while performing previous or next date navigation.
* \#168309 - Appointment end time is calculated correctly now, when it is being drag and dropped to the last cell of the last row.
* \#168061 - Month cell(s) height is increasing correctly, while adding more number of appointments to a single cell.
* \#168098 - Unwanted rendering of vertical scrolling space in the month view is prevented.
* \#168033 - `ownerId` parameter is added in `beforeAppointmentChange` event.
* \#167660 - Long day recurrence appointments with monthly frequency is creating correctly now.
* \#167275 - `queryCellInfo` event is triggering correctly, while navigating the week ranges.
* \#167129 - Month view is displaying correctly, while navigating through arrows.
* \#167844 - Rendering of an additional row at the bottom of the Schedule, while hiding header bar is prevented.
* \#163576 - Cell end time is calculating correctly, when `timeScale` feature is enabled.
* \#167053, \#166891 - Appointment width is updated properly while using workcells template.
* \#168808 - Scheduler is aligned properly now in chrome emulator.
* \#169934 - Schedule is exporting correctly in week view.
* \#170513 - Re-rendering of an appointment while resizing the Scheduler is prevented.
* \#169934 - Cell misalignment while using `timeScale` property options is fixed.
* \#171193 - Rendering of horizontal scroller, while enabling cell auto-fit feature in chrome emulator has been fixed.
* \#171849 - Appointments are correctly retrieved in CRUD search sample.
* \#171804 - All-day recurring appointments will not modify its recurrence icon state, while moving slightly within the same cell.
* \#171444 - Dates are generating correctly with `firstDayOfWeek` property enabled in Recurrence Editor.
* \#171712 - Months are navigating correctly with `firstDayOfWeek` property enabled.
* \#171640 - Recurrence appointment with `UNTIL` parameter in its recurrence rule can be edited now without script error.
* \#170820 - Misalignment will not occur when `timeScale`, `startHour`, `endHour` properties are used together.
## ejScroller

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejscroller-bug-fixes}
 
* \#167107 -  Zoom in & zoom out operation can be performed in Scroller content.
* \#166542 -  Dynamically applied `height` and `width` now set to Scroller properly.



## ejSlider

### Breaking changes	
{:#ejslider-breaking-changes}

*  In previous, the slider handle was out bound from the slider wrapper. Now based on the handle size, slider wrapper size extends up to the slider handle.
## ejSpellCheck

### Features
{:#ejspellcheck-features}

*  Spellcheck with multiple target HTML elements has been added.
*  Responsiveness support provided to render the spellcheck in mobile devices.



## ejSpreadsheet

### Features
{:#ejspreadsheet-features}

* Provided support for freeze panes in virtualization.

### Bug fixes
{:#ejspreadsheet-bug-fixes}

* \#168555 - Issue with the formatting of grid when it is in Spreadsheet backstage is fixed.
* \#168693 - Issue with copy Sheet is not working after import is fixed.
* \#168093 - Issue with saving Spreadsheet as JSON which contains cell type(checkbox) is fixed.
* \#167227 - Issue with Spreadsheet gets unresponsive when script loaded before CSS is fixed.
* \#167663 - Issue with cell type checkbox is not maintained after scrolling is fixed.
* \#167663 - Issue with duplicate object in cell types collection after scrolling is fixed.
* \#166894 - Issue with referenced formula having another cell references are not re-calculated while updating cell value is fixed.
* \#168989, 169359 - Issue with row resizing in non-virtual mode is fixed.
* \#168989, 169359 - Issue with pager context menu position is fixed.
* \#168989, 169359 - Issue with scroll bar restoring, after load Spreadsheet through loadFromJSON is fixed. 
* \#168989, 169359 - Issue with row height while inserting row, when rows are wrapped is fixed.
* \#168989, 169359 - Issue with Up and Down arrow keys in keyboard navigation is fixed.
* \#168989, 169359 - Issue with PageUp and PageDown keys in keyboard navigation is fixed.
* \#169912 - Issue with action complete event is not triggered while updating values on the list validation applied cell is fixed.
* \#168606 - Issue while deleting the column which contains formula after import is fixed.
* \#168730 - Performance issue with restricted row heights is fixed.
* \#171270 - Issue with importing excel file with formula is fixed.
* \#169807 - Issue with accounting format while exporting is fixed.
* \#169747, 169749 - Issue with name manger after renaming the sheet is fixed.
* \#169747 - Issue with data serialization when unobtrusive is true is fixed.
* \#170058 - Provided an option for getting the cell index in cell hover client side event.
* \#168688 - Provided event for sheet rename and move sheet.
* \#168343 - Provided options to prevent alert dialogs.
* \#167734 - Provided undo redo support for custom operations.
* \#167734 - Provided event for refresh Spreadsheet.
* \#167077 - Provided options for getting chart ID.
* \#166544 - Provided support to drag fill formula for absolute and mixed cell references.
* \#169056 - Provided API for getting cell address in Spreadsheet.
* \#170957 - Provided an option for add and update chart title dynamically.
* \#170928 - Provided support for setting dropdown datasource from another sheet.
* \#171742 - Provided client side event for scroll stop.
* \#169546, 169961 - Provided client side event for custom parameters while exporting.

### Breaking changes
{:#ejspreadsheet-breaking-changes}

*  [`freezePanes`](https://help.syncfusion.com/api/js/ejspreadsheet#methods:xlfreeze-freezepanes) public method parameters are updated.
## ejSunburstChart `Preview`

{:#ejsunburstchart-feature}

A new Sunburst chart has been added for visualizing hierarchical data. The center circle represents the root level in the hierarchy, with outer circles representing higher levels of the hierarchy.

### Key Features

*	Visualize hierarchical data
*	Data label support for better readability
*	Interactively select or highlight segments.
*	Interactive legend
*	Colors can be customized

## ejTab

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejtab-bug-fixes}

* \#169438, #170117 -  The issue of "After cancelling the item selection, previous active item index was not maintained properly" has been rectified.
* \#168248 - The issue of "Unable to delete child tab items in nested tab whether if any addition or deletion is performed in parent tab item" has been rectified.
* \#167887 - The issue of "NumericTextbox control doesn't render inside Tab while using Knockout" has been fixed.
## ejTextBoxes

### Features
{:#ejtextboxes-features}

 * \#169946 - Provided option to bring numeric keypad on focus through touch. This option enabled, if you rendered our textbox by specifying the type as "number".  

N>  It does not supports the number key pad while specifying [decimal](https://help.syncfusion.com/api/js/ejtextboxes#members:decimalplaces) values in “ejNumericTextbox”. In this case it shows Alpha keypad. 

* \#167799 – In Edge browser, Not able to use the arrow keys to move inside the ejPercentageTextbox issue has been fixed.
## ejToolbar


### Features
{:#ejtoolbar-features}

* Provided Items API support for toolbar 
* Provided template support in both Items and dataSource API
* Provided events for overflow popup open and close.
* Provided API responsiveType to change the responsive type as required.


### Bug Fixes
{:#ejtoolbar-bug-fixes}

* \#167348 - The issue "Console error occurs when setting dataSource after initialization" has been fixed.
* \#168291, #170082, #170863, #171096 –  The issue "Tooltip in Toolbar control is not hidden properly for certain events" has been fixed.
## ejTreeGrid

### Features
{:#ejtreegrid-features}

* \#166951- The load time performance in rendering large data has been improved.
* \#161198, \#162711 – Provided support for binding nested properties in the data source to columns.
* \#161858 – Now the `recordClick` event will be triggered while clicking the records, and this event will be triggered even when disabling row selection.
*	Now the support for reordering columns using touch action has been provided.


### Bug Fixes
{:#ejtreegrid-bug-fixes}

* \#169042 – Issue with canceling the `rowSelecting` event has been fixed.
* \#167332 – Now in row editing mode, the cell which is being clicked will get focused, instead of first cell of the row.
* \#167863 – Issue with tooltip not rendering when displaying ejTreeGrid within ejDialog has been fixed.
* \#170107, \#171098 - Issue while dynamically updating data source using setModel has been fixed.
* \#169227 – Issue with editing string with special character has been fixed.
* \#170958 - Now the console error will not occur, while expanding a specific hierarchy level using `expandAtLevel` public method.
* \#171091 – Issue with column filtering with multiple filter values has been fixed.
* \#128386 – Issue while reordering column when some text is selected in the browser has been fixed.





## ejTreeMap

### Features
{:#ejtreemap-features}

* \#162007, \#166239, \#164857 - Provided support to bind the hierarchical data source to the tree map.

## ejTreeView

### Features
{:#ejtreeview-features}

* \#168997 -  Provided the option to check multiple nodes via “checkNode” public method in TreeView.

### Bug Fixes	
{:#ejtreeview-bug-fixes}

* \#170992 - Treeview with fixed height and vertical scroll bar issue fixed.

* \#168328 - TreeView control throws error whenever drag and drop or insert new node while binding empty data source to TreeView at initial time issue has been fixed.
## ejUploadbox

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejuploadbox-bug-fixes}

* \#170516 - Provided the support for triggering complete event in both the success and failure action cases.
* \#168835, #105715, #168766 -  On setting the MultipleFilesSelection as false in Uploadbox will allow only single file to upload.
