---
title 		: Essential Studio for JavaScript 2017 Volume 1 Service Pack 2 Release Notes
description : Essential Studio for JavaScript 2017 Volume 1 Service Pack 2 Release Notes
platform 	: js
---

# Essential Studio for JavaScript Release Notes

{% include release-info.html date=site.releasedate.2017_vol_1_sp2 version=site.version.2017_vol_1_sp2 %} 



## Common

### Breaking Changes
{:#common-breaking-changes}
 
* Dropped the JSDELIVR CDN support for Syncfusion JavaScript assets from this release.
## ejAutocomplete

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejautocomplete-bug-fixes}

* \#174140 - Problem with removing duplicates for remote data binding in Autocomplete multiselect visualmode has been resolved.

* \#173309 - Issue with setting height for Autocomplete multiselect visualmode has been fixed. 


## ejCalculate

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejcalculate-bug-fixes}

* \#173569 - `IF` formula which contains the `LookUp` formula as argument is now working properly.

## ejChart

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejChart-bug-fixes}

* \#173855, \#174250 - Chart is now rendering properly, even if we didn't specify ID for the chart container element.
* \#173594 - [`Trackball`](https://help.syncfusion.com/api/js/ejchart#members:crosshair-type) tooltip is visible now, when we hover on the [`plot offset`](https://help.syncfusion.com/api/js/ejchart#members:primaryxaxis-plotoffset) region.
## ejDraggable

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejdraggable-bug-fixes}

* \#175379 -  The issue "ej-draggable does not allow the element to edit" has been fixed.


## ejGantt

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejgantt-bug-fixes}

* \#174715 - Issue while updating the datasource dynamically in Knockout has been fixed.
* \#174824 - Issue while adding a record in empty datasource in Knockout has been fixed.
* \#F129341 - Now the taskbar editing icons will be removed properly on disabling the `allowGanttChartEditing` property dynamically.
* \#F129223 - Issue while updating the timescale mode in AngularJS has been fixed. 
## ejGrid

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejgrid-bug-fixes}

*  \#173557 - Row Drag and Drop working fine when we drag the second grouped row while on `Grouping` operation.
*  \#173543 - Now, Virtualization grid returns proper selected row index value after calling `refreshContent`method.
*  \#172584 - Multi-Row Selection persisted in selected state when we open the Context Menu. 
*  \#175070,#175094 - Selection working fine while scrolling the record with `enableVirtualization`.  
*  \#171096 - When we have multiple grids on same page, new records properly added for both grids while using `addRecord` method.
*  \#173718 - Multiple grid Exporting working fine now.
*  \#173669 - Added record displayed properly in grid while using `webApiAdaptor` with `isIdentity` property.  
*  \#174324 - Excel filter dialog shows the proper filtered records after we performed the `Searching` operation.
*  \#175382 - Header Row scrolled perfectly when we enabled `allowScrolling` property while on resize the browser window.
*  \#174334 - Grid selection works fine when we enable `Grouping` and `Scrolling` properties.
*  \#172850 - `string` type date column converts into `date` type when we set initial `Grouping`.
*  \#172907 - In `cellEdit` and `cellSave` events, `args.value` returns proper value when we render the Grid with `foreignKey` column and `batch`editing.  
*  \#172693 - Dragged record visual element displays properly on the splitter when we drag a record from Grid to Splitter.
## ejListBox

### Bug Fixes	
{:#ejlistbox-bug-fixes}

* \#171866 - The DataSource is not refreshed in cascading ListBox with template support issue has been fixed



## ejMaskEdit

### Bug Fixes	
{:#ejmaskedit-bug-fixes}

* \#172733 – In form post back, browser auto fill values are not maintained properly issue has been fixed.

* \#175077- Unable to set the MaskEdit textbox value as html tag issue has been fixed.

## ejPdfViewer

### Features
{:#ejpdfviewer-features}

* \#174054 – Support to send Synchronous and Asynchronous requests to download API is implemented.
* \#172274 - Added support to provide user-defined document names when downloading PDF document displayed in the PDF viewer control.
* \#173425 - FileName is included as an argument in the documentLoad event.




### Bug Fixes
{:#ejpdfviewer-bug-fixes}

* \#173110 - Image in the header of the document is now displayed properly.

## ejPivotClient

### Bug fixes	
{:#ejpivotclient-bug-fixes}

* \#174409, #174963 - "Select All" and "Deselect All" option is available inside Member Editor in slicer axis.
* \#174441 - PivotClient runs properly with RequireJS.
 
## ejPivotGrid

### Bug fixes
{:#ejpivotgrid-bug-fixes}

* \#174744 - Exception occurred while performing drag and drop operation in GroupingBar has been fixed.
* \#174520 - Collapsing members option is working properly in PivotGrid.
 
## ejRadialMenu

### Bug Fixes	
{:#ejradialmenu-bug-fixes}

* \#174237 -Issue with retrieve the child index for nested RadialMenu has been fixed.
## ejRibbon

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejribbon-bug-fixes}

* \#175615 - `showTab` method script error is resolved after adding tabs dynamically.


## ejRTE

### Bug Fixes

{:#ejrte-bug-fixes}

* \#165932 - The issue '`getHtml` method returns hidden characters' has been fixed.
* \#175871 - The issue 'table resize in RTE doesn't work when table is inserted using `setHtml` method' has been fixed.
## ejSchedule

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejschedule-bug-fixes}

* \#173536 - The date format in the Schedule header bar will be displayed as per culture format.
* \#173404 - Appointments are saving properly in Korean culture now.


## ejSpreadsheet

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejspreadsheet-bug-fixes}

* \#173365 - Issue with custom sheet name (contains apostrophe) in name manager is fixed.
* \#173569 - Issue with row misalignment in wrap and merge contained cells on importing is fixed.
* \#173569 - Issue with default chart not rendered for unsupported charts on importing is fixed.
* \#174131 - Provided support for drag fill with formula concatenation.

## ejTab

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejtab-bug-fixes}

* \#174123 -  The issue "Ajax request post call twice when add a item using `addItem` public method" has been fixed.
## ejTextboxes

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejtextboxes-bug-fixes}

* \#F129296 – Provided the option to prevent a pasting non-numeric values in textboxes (Numeric, Percentage, Currency). 

## ejTile

### Bug Fixes	
{:#ejtile-bug-fixes}

* \#174589,174593,174682 - Warning with Tile theme compilation on linear-gradient issue has been resolved.
## ejTooltip

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejtoolbar-bug-fixes}

* \#173484 - The issue "tooltip `beforeOpen` event is not triggered in Internet Explorer" has been fixed.
