---
title 		: Essential Studio for JavaScript 2017 Volume 3 Service Pack 1 Release Notes
description : Essential Studio for JavaScript 2017 Volume 3 Service Pack 1 Release Notes
platform 	: js
---

# Essential Studio for JavaScript Release Notes

{% include release-info.html date=site.releasedate.2017_vol_3_sp1 version=site.version.2017_vol_3_sp1 %} 



## Common

### Bug Fixes	
{:#common-bug-fixes}

* \#181086 – Issue with subscriptions are not disposed properly while destroying ej components in KnockoutJS.
## ejCalculate

### Features
{:#ejcalculate-features}

* Provided support for the following Excel formulas,
    * `COUNTIF`
    * `MMULT` 
    * `ROUND` 
    * `ROUNDUP`
    * `ROUNDDOWN`
    * `PV`
    * `NORMSDIST`
    * `NORMDIST`
    * `SUMPRODUCT`
    * `VLOOKUP`
    * `STDEV`
## ejChart


### Bug Fixes
{:#ejchart-bug-fixes}

* \#184690 - [`Data label template`](https://help.syncfusion.com/api/js/ejchart#members:series-marker-datalabel) is now displaying properly.
* \#184541 - Now the instance of [`data source`](https://help.syncfusion.com/api/js/ejchart#members:series-datasource) will not change, even after rendering the chart.
* F131000 - While changing the [`zoomFactor`](https://help.syncfusion.com/api/js/ejchart#members:primaryxaxis-zoomfactor) and [`zoomPosition`](https://help.syncfusion.com/api/js/ejchart#members:primaryxaxis-zoomposition) of an axis, visible range of that axis alone will change now.

## ejDiagram


### Bug Fixes
{:#ejDiagram-bug-fixes}

* \#183397 - When drag and drop the node to container, the nodes gets disconnected which is placed outside the canvas is fixed.
* \#176645 - Exception raised when drawing polyline connector and set the pageSetting's `boundaryConstraints` as `diagram` is fixed.
* \#185188 - Exception raised when right click on the text editor is fixed.
* \#185167 - Layout with multiple parents not updated properly when calling `layout` method at runtime is fixed.
* \#184843 - Connector's labels are not exported properly when setting the label's `margin` value in negative is fixed.
* \#183815 - When drag and drop the node from palette, `pointer-events` attribute set to `none` for all DOM elements with class value set as `s-resize` and `e-resize` is fixed.
* \#184945 - By using the `exportDiagram` method and exporting the diagram with specified bounds is now working properly.

## ejDialog

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejdialog-bug-fixes}

* \#184759 - Issue with setting the height for the `ejRTE` control inside Dialog has been fixed.
## ejDropDownList

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejdropdownlist-bug-fixes}

* \#185020,\#184447 Preselected values are displayed thrice in multiselect visual mode has been resolved.
## ejGantt

### Features
{:#ejgantt-features}
* \#F132012, 185158 – Now the milestones in a project are positioned accordingly to the provided date and time values.
* \#185087 - Now the validation support has been provided for the predecessor values to ignore the incorrect entries.

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejgantt-bug-fixes}

* \#185563 – Issue with baseline date value format in cell edit and dialog edit actions has been fixed.
* \#184781 - Issue with displaying predecessor tab in add/edit dialog in KnockoutJS has been fixed.
* \#184466 - Issue with resource collection update in edit dialog has been fixed.








## ejGrid

### Features
{:#ejGrid-features}

*  \#180298 - Provided support to render the `pageSize` based on container height.


### Bug Fixes
{:#ejGrid-bug-fixes}

*  \#184834 - Batch editing works fine with `fieldName` consisting of $ symbol.
*  \#184853 - When adding records to an empty Grid, the last record displays fine after rendering the scroller.
*  \#182452 - While performing paging in Responsive Grid the scroller will not be rendered unnecessarily.
*  \#184609 - `editParams` works fine while binding complex data in Grid.
*  \#183289 - Validation works fine while saving an empty record using `batchSave` method.
*  \#184326, \#186046 - `commonWidth` is applied to the Grid when scroller is rendered dynamically.
*  \#183676 - While `defaultValue` is set to column args.rowdata returns default value during `Batch` editing.
*  \#183724 - Hovering of Grid rows in touch devices works fine.
*  \#183141 - While scrolling the white spaces will not appear in `enableVirtualization` Grid.
*  \#182980 - While editing the Grid using `InlineTemplateForm` the scroller renders fine .
## ejKanban


### Bug Fixes
{:#ejkanban-bug-fixes}

*  \#185383 – Update the data source with key values, when the updated card details is not available on column key value.
*  \#183684, \#185054 – Shrink count will be updated properly when any one column is toggled and the card is updated properly.
*  \#183684 – Issue with displaying Kanban content on horizontal scrolling within the Kanban has been fixed.
*  \#184759 – Issue with rendering `ejRTE` control properly within dialog edit template has been fixed.
*  \#183684 - Initial column width for Kanban enabled with `allowScrolling` property is set properly, when any one column is toggled.
## ejListBox

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejlistbox-bug-fixes}

* \#185940 - Issue with value field bound methods (`getIndexByValue()`, `hideItemByValue()`, `hideItemsByValue()`, `showItemByValue()` and `showItemsByValue()`) have been fixed.
## ejListView

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejlistview-bug-fixes}

* \#184549 - The `dataSource` is updated for ListView on `removeItem()` method.
## ejPdfViewer

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejPdfViewer-bug-fixes}

* \#183878 - The text box form fields are now preserve multiline text.
* \#184731 - The height of the viewer container has been updated when the toolbar is hidden. 
* \#184731 - The [`serviceUrl`](https://help.syncfusion.com/api/js/ejpdfviewer#serviceurl-string) property has been updated properly while setting it after control initialization.





## ejPivotClient

### Bug fixes	
{:#ejpivotclient-bug-fixes}

* \#184538 – Values are not rounded for percentage number format during excel export.

### Features
{:#ejpivotclient-features}

* \#171119 – Member selection and member paging now works properly for search result. 
* \#180613 – Provided option to display the report collection’s name.
* \#180613 – Reports are maintained properly with its corresponding cube information even switching cubes. 
* \#179216 – KPI supports without measure element. 
* \#184529 – “xlsx” file format is support now. 
* \#180519 – Provided support to export PivotChart to excel similar to excel-like PivotChart instead of an image. 

## ejPivotGrid

### Features
{:#ejpivotgrid-features}

* \#185426 – Provided support to enable "withCredentials" property in XHR request.

## ejReportViewer

### Bug Fixes	
{:#ejreportviewer-bug-fixes}

* \#178733 - Background color value issue is resolved for tablix cell.

* \#182040 - Resolved the multi-value parameter issue when the visibility is hidden.

* \#178733 - Now, the zooming functionality is working properly in Microsoft Edge browser.

* \#186200, #186136 - Resolved null reference exception for tooltip localization text.

## ejSchedule

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejschedule-bug-fixes}

* \#185825 - Dates are displayed correctly, while navigating the view by clicking overflow icon.
* \#183009 - Longer duration Blockout intervals are displaying correctly, when different timescale option is set.
* \#184971 - Blockout intervals are displaying correctly, when blockout end time and Schedule start hour are same.
* \#184895 - Blockout appointments does not move to one week later and are rendering correctly now, when there is a workCell template applied on the same day.
* \#184786 - Work week days are rendering correctly now, when `firstDayOfWeek` property is set.
* \#184602 - `appointmentClick` event is prevented now, on right click of the mouse.


## ejSparkline


### Bug Fixes
{:#ejsparkline-bug-fixes}

* \#183876 - Now the Sparkline is responsive while resizing the browser.

## ejSplitter

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejsplitter-bug-fixes}

*  \#183885 – Changed the collapse and expand action for Splitter on the `mouseup` event.
## ejSpreadsheet

### Bug Fixes	
{:#ejspreadsheet-bug-fixes}

* \#183747 – Issue with importing invalid formulas as text value return #NAME error is fixed.

* \#184476 – Issue with performance on importing large data with formatting is fixed.

* \#182691 – Issue with custom formulas having no arguments on editing is fixed.

* \#184778 – Issue with adding dropdownlist for a range of cells with custom list as datasource is fixed.

* \#183197 – Issue with exporting number formatting values in ‘pt-BR’ culture is fixed.

* \#183747 – Issue with exception throws when plain text values are recognized as formulas on exporting is fixed.

* \#184577 – Issue with applying percentage misbehave on empty cells and value existing cells is fixed.
## ejTextBoxes

### Features
{:#ejtextboxes-features}

* \#182613 - We have provided the option to allow the decimal places without any limit.

### Bug Fixes	
{:#ejtextboxes-bug-fixes}

* \#185029 - Able to type non-numeric characters in Textbox component issue has been fixed.


## ejToolbar

### Bug fixes
{:#ejtoolbar-bug-fixes}

* \#185463 - Tabbing lost the order of focus in IE and Edge using tab and shift + tab has been fixed.
## ejTreeGrid

### Features
{:#ejtreegrid-features}
* \#183625 - Now the drop positions insertAbove, insertBelow and insertAsChild while dragging a row will be available in the rowDrag event arguments.






## ejTreeMap


### Bug Fixes
{:#ejtreemap-bug-fixes}

* \#183639 - Multi polygon in the JSON data source in now rendering properly.

## ejTreeView

### Features
{:#ejtreeview-features}

* \#184008 – Provided nested object support in TreeView fields. That helps to map the complex data from data source.

### Bug Fixes	
{:#ejtreeview-bug-fixes}

* \#184922 – The issue “While drop more than one tree nodes in siblings of target TreeView, dropped nodes sorted orders are differed” has been fixed.

* \#182105 - The issue “When tree nodes having same id, unable to add the new nodes on corresponding target” has been fixed.

### Breaking Changes
{:#ejtreeview-breaking-changes}

* \#182105 - In previous, when we pass a single node with a parentID and target to addNode method, the node will append to the parentID’s node and currently node will append in to the target.
