---
title 		: Essential Studio for JavaScript 2017 Volume 2 Release Notes
description : Essential Studio for JavaScript 2017 Volume 2 Release Notes
platform 	: js
---

# Essential Studio for JavaScript Release Notes

{% include release-info.html date=site.releasedate.2017_vol_2 version=site.version.2017_vol_2 %} 



## Common

### Features

{:#common-features}

* Provided the new method **getISOString** to convert the given date object value into ISO string (international standard of date and time).

### Breaking Changes
{:#common-breaking-changes}
 
* \#174965 -  The background-color of form editor controls in disabled state has been modified.
## ejAutocomplete

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejautocomplete-bug-fixes}

* \#174140 - Problem with removing duplicates for remote data binding in Autocomplete multiselect visualmode has been resolved.

* \#173309 - Issue with setting height for Autocomplete multi-select visual mode has been fixed. 


## ejButton

### Features
{:#ejbutton-features}

* \#164972, \#169385 -  The custom button types (Success Button, Link Button, Information Button, Warning Button and Danger Button) support has been provided through CSS classes (‘e-Success’, ‘e-link’, ‘e-info’, ‘e-warning’, ‘e-danger’) which can be assigned to cssClass property of ejButton.

## ejChart

### Features
{:#ejchart-features}

* \#146986 - Provided support for printing the chart.
* \#155396 - Provided support to place the axes elements outside the chart area, while crossing the axes.
* Provided support to render pie of pie series type.

### Bug fixes
{:#ejChart-bug-fixes}

* \#173855, \#174250 - Chart is now rendering properly, even if we didn't specify ID for the chart container element.
* \#173594 - [`Trackball`](https://help.syncfusion.com/api/js/ejchart#members:crosshair-type) tooltip is visible now, when we hover on the [`plot offset`](https://help.syncfusion.com/api/js/ejchart#members:primaryxaxis-plotoffset) region.
* \#175323 - Index of the data points are not changing now, when toggle the visibility of trendlines.
## ejCheckBox

### Breaking Changes
{:#ejcheckbox-breaking-changes}

* The **validationMessage** of ejCheckBox has been deprecated from this release.Please make use of the **validationMessages** instead. 
 
## ejCircularGauge

### Features
{:#ejcirculargauge-features}

* \#172258 - Provided legend support for representing the ranges in circular gauge. 

## ejDatePicker

### Breaking Changes
{:#ejdatepicker-breaking-changes}

* The **validationMessage** of ejDatePicker has been deprecated from this release.Please make use of the **validationMessages** instead. 
 
## ejDateRangePicker

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejdaterangepicker-bug-fixes}

* \#175777 - Custom Picker button is not in active state when selecting custom date range after clicking any preset range button has been fixed. 

## ejDateTimePicker

### Breaking Changes
{:#ejdatetimepicker-breaking-changes}

* The **validationMessage** of ejDateTimePicker has been deprecated from this release.Please make use of the **validationMessages** instead. 

## ejDiagram

### Bug fixes
{:#ejdiagram-bug-fixes}

* \#171329 - While enabling `boundaryConstraints` and performing clipboard operation with multiple selected nodes not rendered properly is fixed.
* \#171555, \#171663  - Connectors with multiple segments docking is not maintained properly while resizing the lane is fixed.
* \#164131 - `nodeTemplate` function is now triggered properly while adding new nodes at runtime.
* \#172429 - Some nodes are still moving if multiple selection reaches the boundary limit is fixed.
* \#172428 - Performance issue when nudging multiple objects in a lane is fixed.
* \#173470 - Docking is now working properly for port to port connection if port offset's `y` value between 0 to 0.1.
* \#161347 - Exporting the diagram into image format, label wrapping is not exported properly in IE browser is fixed.
* \#175427 - While draw the text node in swimlane, it exceeds the boundary limit is fixed.
* \#176573 - Scrollbar not updated properly while editing the label is fixed.
* \#173600 - While performing the clipboard operation with swimlane, connectors also now added.

### Features
{:#ejdiagram-features}

* Template support for `labels` is added.
* Template support for `contextMenuItem` is added.
* \#161622 - Exporting the diagram with native node, event will be raised for native nodes which is used to draw the native node in application level on exporting.



## ejDialog

### Bug Fixes	
{:#ejdialog-bug-fixes}

* \#175587 - Issue with rendering Dialog footer, when contentType and contentUrl is set via setModel has been fixed.

### Features
{:#ejdialog-features}

* The Dialog provides an option to enable/disable browser scroll when we open the Modal Dialog.

### Breaking changes
{:#ejdialog-breaking-changes}

* Dialog position will be calculated based on the target or containment element.
## ejDraggable

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejdraggable-bug-fixes}

* \#175379 -  The issue "ej-draggable does not allow the element to edit" has been fixed.
* \#145607 -  The issue "drop event triggered child element than the parent element" has been fixed.


## ejDropDownList

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejdropdownlist-bug-fixes}

* \#176593 -  The issue " DropDownList does not maintain selection after server side event" has been resolved.
* \#176312, #176332 -The issue with DropDownList disabled attribute has been resolved.
* \#177102 - The issue "Sample browser(DropDownList control) not running in pure IE8 " has been resolved.
## ejFileExplorer

### Bug Fixes	
{:#ejfileexplorer-bug-fixes}

* \#173642- The “ejFileExplorer” control renders properly in mobile mode without any script error.


## ejGantt

### Features
{:#ejgantt-features}

* \#134230, \#136584, \#137072, \#141037, \#147034, \#149917, \#151176 - Support for exporting Gantt contents to PDF has been implemented.
* \#172552, \#140878, \#149638, \#165417, \#136135, \#149804 - Support for displaying custom icons in toolbar has been implemented.
* \#170740 - Implemented the support for mapping the work field from data source.
* \#165100, \#171769 - Support for mapping the expand status of a record has been implemented.
* \#173616, \#174707, \#175548 - Method for updating the records dynamically has been implemented


### Bug fixes
{:#ejgantt-bug-fixes}

* \#174715 - Issue while updating the datasource dynamically in Knockout has been fixed.
* \#174824 - Issue while adding a record in empty datasource in Knockout has been fixed.
* \#F129341 - Now the taskbar editing icons will be removed properly on disabling the `allowGanttChartEditing` property dynamically.
* \#F129223 - Issue while updating the timescale mode in AngularJS has been fixed. 

## ejGrid

### Features
{:#ejGrid-features}

*  \#175836 - Performance issue fixed when we perform cancel operation while bind large number of data.
*  \#175779 - Added space between the cell text and border when we enable `allowResizeToFit` and column `width` as undefined.
*  \#174763 - Provided support for auto scroll when `Reordering` the columns far away in scrolling Grid.
*  \#174613 - Provided support to trigger Grid Events when we update the records using `updateRecord` method.
*  \#168313 , \#176661 - Grid Filter dialog placed properly when the Grid is inside the Tab page.
*  \#145607 - While on Drag and Drop, column's `headerText` position now gets matched with the mouse pointer.

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejgrid-bug-fixes}

*  \#176661 - Values in textarea updated properly when we edit and save the records while using `dialogTemplate` as `editMode`.
*  \#176661 - Editing works properly in `dialogTemplate` when we perform edit and save operation on fields which are not defined in Grid Columns.
*  \#176819 - Cancel operation works properly after edit and cancel the records with `showAddNewRow` enabled.
*  \#174030 - Now,`Printing` works fine with `foreignKey` column.  
*  \#176655 - Checkbox displayed properly while binding multiple complex columns to Grid with type as `boolean` in case of `Batch` editing
*  \#176700 - `Batch` editing works fine when we edit a field that has no value.
*  \#176555 , \#177375 - Total and Group summary working good in combination with `detailTemplate`.
*  \#176555 - Total summary displays fine when we render the Grid with initial `Grouping`.
*  \#175493 - `Grouping` works perfectly via `setModel` when multiple Grids are rendered in a page.
*  \#175898 - Now, Word Exporting working fine with Group summary.
*  \#176380 - `Tooltip` works fine when hovers over the Grid headerText.
*  \#176108 - `FilterbarTemplate` working properly for `foreignKey` column.
*  \#176078 , \#176506 - Deletion operation performed well now when using commandColumns with `allowSelection` property as false.
*  \#175266 - Prevented addition of form elements in DOM while Exporting the Grid data.
*  \#175655 - Sort icon displayed fine when render the Grid inside the `Dialog`
*  \#175094 , \#175070 , \#177184  - Whitespace not shown when we call `selectRows` method after scrolling the Grid.
*  \#175215 - Prevented addition of multiple script elements in DOM when hovering the cell with `Tooltip` enabled.
*  \#175655 - Sort icon displayed fine when render the Grid inside the `Dialog`
*  \#175181 - Searched records gets cleared on clicking the clear icon.
*  \#174988 , \#176661 - Hidden element of Dropdown control not displayed as one of the property in the edited object.
*  \#173203 - `Excel` filtering works fine when we render the Grid with empty `dataSource` and update the remote data via `setModel`.
*  \#128674 - Now,`getCurrentViewData` method returns correct data while binding empty `dataSource`.
*  \#174807 - No Misalignment occurs in Grid after Grouping, hiding and resizing the columns.
## ejKanban

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejkanban-bug-fixes}

* \#172918 – Showing horizontal scroll bar is prevented when columns are in collapsed state and width set as 100%.
* \#176610 – Issue in sub context menu rendering with `Move to swim lane` context menu is fixed with remote data.
* \#176713 – Cards are not rendering issue while updating columns through set model is fixed.
* \#173056 – Search box watermark text is added in locale text’s.
* \#173055 - Card double click event is triggering when editing set to false.
* \#172228 – Provided option in events to prevent card double click behavior.

## ejListBox

### Bug Fixes	
{:#ejlistbox-bug-fixes}

* \#171866 - The DataSource is not refreshed in cascading ListBox with template support issue has been fixed
* \#172261 - Problem with maintaining the selected item on page reload, when grouping and persistence enabled in ListBox have been fixed.
* \#175443 - Issue with addItem() method if dataSource is not bound to ListBox initially have been fixed.

### Features
{:#ejlistbox-features}

* Provided sorting support to automatically sort the list items in alphabetical order.
* Cascade event provided to ListBox, which will be triggered before the cascaded data is populated.

## ejListView

### Bug Fixes	
{:#ejlistview-bug-fixes}

* \#176319 - Issue with maintaining CheckedIndices value in model has been fixed.

### Features
{:#ejlistview-features}

* Provided virtual scrolling support to load data on demand without buffering huge data, it supports both normal and continuous mode.

## ejPager

### Features
{:#ejpager-features}

* Pager control has been enhanced with the additional features like **PageSize** with dropdown option along with **pageSizeMessage** for label message indication. **showGoToPage** helps for easy navigation to the desired page using inclusion of the search textbox.

## ejPdfViewer

### Features
{:#ejPdfViewer-features}

* \#158972, #159474, #161405, #161658, #168853, #169880, #174931 - Provided support for Text markup annotations.
* \#173556 - Provided the RTL support for text search and copy. 
* \#173831 - Provided support for copying the searched text.
* \#174054 - Support to download the document in a Synchronous and Asynchronous manner is implemented.
* \#172274 - Added support to provide user-defined names when downloading the PDF document being displayed in the ejPdfViewer.
* \#173425 - FileName is included as an argument in the documentLoad event.
* \#170781 - [`DocumentUnload`](https://help.syncfusion.com/api/js/ejpdfviewer#documentunload) event is included in the ejPdfViewer.
* \#174823 - Added support to handling errors during the failure of the AJAX request.
* \#I175176, #175376 - Added localization support for the context menu in the ejPdfViewer.



### Bug Fixes
{:#ejPdfViewer-bug-fixes}

* \#172739 - Script error will no longer be thrown when we scroll the PDF document with higher zoom values in the PDF viewer.
* \#173194 - The PDF file extension handling in the [`Load`](https://help.syncfusion.com/api/js/ejpdfviewer#loadfilename) method of PDF viewer control is moved to the server side.
* \#172825 - Image is no longer been cropped when the PDF document is exported as image with custom DPI value. 
* \#173110 - Image in the header of the document is now displayed properly.
* \#174054 – The correct PDF document is downloaded when different documents are loaded in different browsers which access same PDF viewer service.
* \#177230 – Printing PDF document using the ejPdfViewer in multiple user environment works properly.
* \#176168 – Delay in page navigation and scrolling on mobile devices is now resolved.
* \#173425 - The file name is not empty anymore, when loading the document as byte array.
* \#172739 - Script error will no longer be thrown when scrolling the PDF document with higher zoom values.
* \#172739 - No errors will be thrown in the ejPdfViewer when FitToWidth mode is set during the control initialization.
* \#173831 - The current page now fits to viewport when view mode is set to fit to page.



## ejPivotChart

### Bug fixes	
{:#ejpivotchart-bug-fixes}

* \#175724 - Legend label is now displayed properly in PivotChart. 
* \#175742 - Localization is applied properly for PivotChart (Relational DB). 

### Features
{:#ejpivotchart-features}

* \#171647, #171632 - Mondrian XML/A support for latest versions has been provided at Client Mode.
* \#148825 – Provided grouping label in PivotChart for drill operation.  

## ejPivotClient

### Bug fixes	
{:#ejpivotclient-bug-fixes}

* \#175188 - Filtering is applied properly while members having same names are present in PivotClient.
* \#175724 - PivotGrid is now displayed properly while setting “showSubTotal” as false. 
* \#175724 - Pivot button position is changed properly while performing drag and drop in same axis. 

### Features
{:#ejpivotclient-features}

* \#160354 - Splitter has been provided for cube dimension browser to adjust. 
* \#148673 - Hierarchy name along with its dimension name in shown in Split Buttons. 
* \#123823 - Measure/attribute search box provided in cube dimension browser. 
* \#175446 - Enhancement done to load/fetch report from DB.
* \#172663 - Improved the waiting pop-up loading time in PivotClient. 
* \#175757 - Provided support to render multiple Pivot controls in same page.
* \#97882 - Provided support for calculated members and measures.
* \#171647, #171632 - Mondrian XML/A support for latest versions has been provided at Client Mode.
* \#144262, #174426 - Provided support for responsive layout height wise. 


## ejPivotGauge

### Features
{:#ejpivotgauge-features}
 
* \#171647, #171632 - Mondrian XML/A support for latest versions has been provided at Client Mode.

## ejPivotGrid

### Features
{:#ejpivotgrid-features}
 
* \#171647, #171632 - Mondrian XML/A support for latest versions has been provided at Client Mode.
* \#131837 - User can display column header name in PivotGrid.
* \#142406, #143465, #147288 - User can sort columns and rows by value for Relational data source.

## ejRadialMenu

### Bug Fixes	
{:#ejradialmenu-bug-fixes}

* \#174237 -Issue with retrieve the child index for nested RadialMenu has been fixed.
## ejRadioButton

### Bug Fixes	
{:#ejradiobutton-bug-fixes}

* \#173115- Now ejRadioButton can be checked when click the RadioButton text.

### Breaking Changes
{:#ejradiobutton-breaking-changes}

* The **validationMessage** of ejRadioButton has been deprecated from this release.Please make use of the **validationMessages** instead. 

## ejRating

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejrating-bug-fixes}

* \#177339 - The issue with Rating KO two-way binding has been resolved. 

## ejReportViewer

### Bug Fixes	
{:#ejreportviewer-bug-fixes}
* \#173084, #173085 - Now, the zoom functionality working properly for all zoom values.

* \#168984 - Resolved header item rendering outside the container area in print preview.

* \#175558 - Console error for image report item in chrome browser has been resolved.

* \#174783 - The incorrect update of non-dependent parameter values when dependent parameter value changed has been resolved.

* \#174783 - Resolved "Select all" string issue in multi-value parameter.

* \#176801 - Now, custom radius value for doughnut chart can be assigned.

* \#173085 - Now, border styles exported properly in PDF export.

* \#171978 - Now, tablix span exception has been resolved in PDF and PPTX export.

* \#172166 - Now, the IIF expression can be used in multi report variable.

* \#173679, #173737 - Image byte data exception in PDF and Word export is resolved.

* \#168984 - Resolved the text run alignment issue in Excel export.

## ejRibbon

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejribbon-bug-fixes}

* \#175615 - `showTab` method script error is resolved after adding tabs dynamically.
* \#172837 - Group id parameter is added now to support group text with special character.

## ejRTE

### Breaking Changes
{:#ejrte-breaking-changes}

* In RTE, the paragraph tag (<p></p>) will maintain instead of empty content during initial render and even after clearing the whole content.

### Features

{:#ejrte-features}

* The RTE toolbar is responsive with inline & popup mode, previously toolbar supports popup mode.
* Responsive support for dialogs and footer in RTE.
* Integration of colorpicker in RTE font and background color tool for custom colors and option for setting transparent background for RTE content.
* Support for removing unwanted elements and styles when we copy paste content from Microsoft Word document to RTE editor.

### Bug Fixes

{:#ejrte-bug-fixes}

* \#175292 - The issue 'setting enableXHTML to true adds an empty div in the Knockout observable value' has been fixed.
* \#175904 - The issue 'RTE Shift+Ctrl+left/right arrow content selection is not working' has been fixed.
* \#175871 - The issue 'table resize in RTE doesn't work when table is inserted using setHtml method' has been fixed.
* \#165932 - The issue 'Add getHtml method for checking encoding and hidden characters' has been fixed.
## ejSchedule

### Features
{:#ejschedule-features}

* \#135948, \#145839, \#129435 - Scheduler is now provided with an option to show/hide the weekend days in all views using the API `showWeekend`.
* \#173867 - Scheduler is now provided with an additional option to customize the appointment's dragging and resizing interval ranges.

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejschedule-bug-fixes}

* \#173536 - Date format in the Schedule header bar will be displayed as per the given culture format.
* \#173404 - Appointments are saving properly in Korean culture now.
* \#176869 - Days and appointments are rendering correctly in week view regardless of Scheduler timezones.
* \#175407 - Alert window with required information will be displayed, while editing the entire recurrence series.
* \#176810 - Both header and work cells are aligned properly, when the time scale is switched off.
* \#176044 - Recurrence appointments are rendering correctly in the presence of DST.
* \#176198 - Script error will not occur now, while editing the whole series in the recurrence appointment.
* \#176869 - Appointments are rendering correctly in the presence of DST.
* \#175847 - Scheduler is printing correctly, with no last days cut-off at the end.
* \#177511 - The Scheduler cells are aligned correctly now, while using `cellHeight` property.
* \#177189 - Double tap event over Scheduler appointments and cells is working fine in iPad.
* \#177678 - Appointment width and height will remain same while drag and dropping in the same interval.
* \#176227 - Recurrence appointments are rendering correctly in the presence of DST.



## ejSpellCheck

### Features

* Support for spell check the content on press the Enter/Space key with keep the cursor position.
* Support for spell check the multiple target HTML elements based on its CSS class name.
* Provided support to spell check the IFrame element' content.

## ejSplitButton

### Features
{:#splitbutton-features}
 
* Class and Id based selector support provided for Target property of SplitButton.

## ejSpreadsheet

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejspreadsheet-bug-fixes}

* \#171918 - Issue with the unwanted actionComplete event has been triggered while using saveAsJSON is fixed.
* \#171943 - Issue with data manager query not maintained properly while scrolling is fixed.
* \#171941 - Issue with clipboard operation not working outside of the Spreadsheet in Mac is fixed.
* \#172855 - Provided client side event for cell types.
* \#171941 - Provided clipboard operation using Command key in Mac and option for paste values only.
* \#170928 - Provided an option for selecting cell behind value in dropdown list cell type automatically.
* \#173365 - Issue with custom sheet name (contains apostrophe) in name manager is fixed.
* \#173569 - Issue with row misalignment in wrap and merge contained cells on importing is fixed.
* \#173569 - Issue with default chart not rendered for unsupported charts on importing is fixed.
* \#174131 - Provided support for drag fill with formula concatenation.
* \#176294 - Issue with custom data source is not maintaining in context menu while switching sheets is fixed.
* \#175929 - Issue with Spreadsheet refresh based on ribbon state (expand/collapse) while switching sheets is fixed. 
* \#176531 - Issue with localization texts are incorrect for Chinese culture is fixed.
* \#176437 - Issue with merging and unmerging while using loadFromJSON is fixed.
* \#175129,175718 - Issue with column resizing when cell containing wrap is fixed.
* \#176349 - Provided localization support for ribbon tab text.



## ejTab

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejtab-bug-fixes}

* \#174123 - The issue of "Ajax request post call twice when add a item using addItem public method" has been fixed.
## ejTextboxes

### Bug Fixes	
{:#ejtextboxes-bug-fixes}

* \#168424 - In Material theme, default height value for "e-textarea" class has been removed.

## ejTile

### Bug Fixes	
{:#ejtile-bug-fixes}

* \#174589,174593,174682 - Warning issues will no longer raise on theme compilation of linear-gradient CSS in Tile component.
## ejTimePicker

### Breaking Changes
{:#ejtimepicker-breaking-changes}
 
* The **validationMessage** of ejTimePicker has been deprecated from this release.Please make use of the **validationMessages** instead. 

## ejTooltip

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejtoolbar-bug-fixes}

* \#173484 - The issue "tooltip `beforeOpen` event is not triggered in Internet Explorer" has been fixed.
## ejTreeGrid

### Features
{:#ejtreegrid-features}

* \#172552, \#140878, \#149638, \#165417, \#136135, \#149804 – Support for displaying custom icons in toolbar has been implemented.
* \#170146 – Support for enabling/disabling a specific column in column chooser has been implemented.
* \#168705, \#139356 – Implemented the validations support for TreeGrid columns while editing and adding actions.
* \#165100, \#171769 – Support for mapping the expand status of a record has been implemented.
* \#158292, \#145064, \#161198 – Support for adaptive rendering in mobile environments has been implemented.
* \#155507, \#164231, \#165272, \#167015 – Support for dialog editing has been implemented.
* \#176125 - Implemented method to return model for exporting by Ajax in TreeGrid.
* \#175953, \#178407 - Support for display boolean value as checkbox has been implemented.
* Row drag and drop performance has been improved with mouse interactions, mouse down delay for initializing the row drag has been removed.

### Bug fixes
{:#ejtreegrid-bug-fixes}

* \#172160 – Issue in exporting cell contents preceded with zeros in excel has been fixed.
* \#172082 – Issue with focusing drop down list on cell editing has been fixed.
* \#171840, \#172821 – Exporting issue with parent id value as string has been fixed. 
* \#172882 – Now TreeGrid columns can be rendered without mapping the field value.
* \#172821 - Now drag tooltip is removed properly while canceling the row drag action.
* \#177507 - Issue with `actionBegin` event arguments for column name while performing sorting has been fixed.
* \#177288 – Issue with drop down column filtering with onEnter filter bar mode has been fixed.
* \#176179 - Vertical scrollbar issue in TreeGrid with paged view has been fixed.
* \#176812 - Issue in row selected event arguments in TreeGrid has been fixed.
* \#176643 - TreeGrid filter menu style has been changed like in Grid.
* \#176539 - Issue in context menu custom theme in TreeGrid has been fixed.
* \#176125 – Now it is possible to set the desired file name for the exported file in excel export.
* \#177970 - Now the TreeGrid model will no more overrides the window.model value.


## ejTreeView

### Bug Fixes	
{:#ejtreeview-bug-fixes}

* \#172766 - The “unselectAll” method unselect all the nodes, while enable full row selection support also in TreeView control.
* \#177001 - In TreeView-template mode, node editing is no longer allowed on F2 key press.
* \#177302 - Updated the dropped node's target information in the `nodeDropped` event.
* \#177005 - When using two-way binding in Knockout, checked node status was updated properly now.

## Predictive Analytics

### Bug Fixes
{:#predictive-analytics-bug-fixes}

* \#173671- Resolved memory issue while loading large sized PMML file in PMML Evaluator.
