---
title 		: Essential Studio for JavaScript 2017 Volume 4 Service Pack 1 Release Notes
description : Essential Studio for JavaScript 2017 Volume 4 Service Pack 1 Release Notes
platform 	: js
---

# Essential Studio for JavaScript Release Notes

{% include release-info.html date=site.releasedate.2017_vol_4_sp1 version=site.version.2017_vol_4_sp1 %} 




## ejAutocomplete

### Bug Fixes	
{:#ejautocomplete-bug-fixes}

* \#194130  - Script error issue is resolved while selecting an item with data source passed as object.


## ejCalculate

### Features
{:#ejcalculate-features}

•	\#191425 – Support provided to identify the parent object of `CalcEngine` from custom formulas.

### Bug fixes
{:#ejcalculate-bug-fixes}

•	\#191879 - `IF` formula is now working properly while using empty or null values as arguments.
•	\#190715 – Formulas are now calculated properly while using an arithmetic operators before the named ranges or inner formulas in arguments.
## ejChart

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejChart-bug-fixes}

* \#192226 - Now data will be returned only for the selection enabled series in range [`selection`](https://help.syncfusion.com/api/js/ejchart#members:series-selectionsettings-enable).
* \#188357 - Scatter [`series`](https://help.syncfusion.com/api/js/ejchart#members:series) will now render properly with `null` points.
* \#193509 - [`Data label`](https://help.syncfusion.com/api/js/ejchart#members:series-marker-datalabel) is now rendering properly without collision.
* \#193235, 193488 - Chart [`series`](https://help.syncfusion.com/api/js/ejchart#members:series) is now rendering properly with zero in 1st point.
* \#188776 - [`Edge label placement`](https://help.syncfusion.com/api/js/ejchart#members:primaryxaxis-edgelabelplacement) `shift` is now working properly without colliding the axis labels.
* F133511 - Assigning the [`axis name`](https://help.syncfusion.com/api/js/ejchart#members:series-xaxisname) with whitespace to the series is now working properly.
## ejCheckBox

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejcheckbox-bug-fixes}

* \#194826 - If CheckBox is in checked state, it returns the value true.
## ejDatePicker

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejdatepicker-bug-fixes}

* \#190763 - Datepicker is rendered properly when it is destroyed and again rendered with aurelia reference.
## ejDateRangePicker

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejdaterangepicker-bug-fixes}

* \#194741 - "On key down DateRangePicker throws exception" issue has been fixed.
## ejDateTimePicker

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejdatetimepicker-bug-fixes}

* \#193623 - While we give minDateTime via set model then Timepicker popup values are refreshed properly.
* \#191444 - DateTimePicker is rendered properly when the showRoundedCorner property is enabled. 
## ejDiagram

### Bug fixes
{:#ejDiagram-bug-fixes}

* \#191382, #194846 - Unable to establish the connection when mouse hovering on port is fixed.
* \#191504 - Need to prevent `historyManager` property on serialization is fixed.
* \#191751 - `BPMNSubProcess` shape borderWidth now updating properly at runtime.
* \#191926 - Unable to connect BPMN shapes by using straight line connector is fixed.
* \#193129 - `BPMNShape` service task dont have proper icon is fixed.
* \#193342 - While resizing the group container which is positioned inside the container node, the parent container size not updating properly is fixed.
* \#134803 - The `elementType` argument in click event returns incorrect value while pageEditable constraints gets disabled is fixed.
* \#191602 - `HTMLNode` is not exported properly in IE browser is fixed.

## ejDialog

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejdialog-bug-fixes}

* \#193323 - beforeClose event triggered at two times issue is fixed in Android tablet.
## ejDropDownList

### Features

{:#ejdropdownlist-features}

*  The initial rendering of DropDownList control takes more time because of the popup list being loaded at that time. Now we have rendered the popup dynamically instead of the initial load and thus increasing the performance of the control. We have provided support for new property "loadOnDemand".
## ejGantt

### Features
{:#ejgantt-features}
* \#188603 – Auto scrolling support while drawing dependency lines has been implemented.
* \#192469 - Now it is possible to prevent the specific editing operations in taskbar resize, taskbar dragging and predecessor draw actions using `taskbarEditing` event.
* \#189892, #194607 - Now the support for rounding-off duration value while editing taskbars has been implemented.

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejgantt-bug-fixes}
* \#F133356 - Issue in PDF export with localized dependency line offset value has been fixed.
* \#191970 - Custom column fields value update issue in `updateRecordByTaskId` method has been fixed.
## ejGrid


### Features
{:#ejGrid-features}

*  \#188664 - Provided support to select multiple cells using keyboard navigation.

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejGrid-bug-fixes}

*  \#193810 - Grid Scroller destroys while destroying the Grid.
*  \#194162 - Selection works fine after the inline form is rendered.
*  \#192255 - Grid displays fine with less total column width and width of `scrollSettings` as 100%.
*  \#188331 - Foreign key data source binding works fine with same values for `foreignKeyField` and `foreignKeyValue`.
*  \#191209 - Validation messages displays fine when adding a row in Grid with `rowPosition` as bottom.
*  \#190712 - Column chooser works fine with `allowGrouping` as true and `showInColumnChooser` set as false.
*  \#191368 - Summary rows displays fine with an empty Grid with `allowResizing` as true.
*  \#191230 - When navigating the Grid by pressing the tab key, the template column also gets focused.
*  \#191046 - Filter icon displays fine after filtering by passing the `filteredColumns` externally.
*  \#191245 - Drag and Drop the rows on any empty area of grid works fine.
*  \#191245 - The columns with `allowEditing` set as false remain disabled with template column included Grid.
*  \#190975 - Grid displays fine after calling the `refreshContent` method after scrolling.
*  \#190113 - When a checkbox column has `field` property enabled, deselecting the row triggers the `rowDeselected` event.
*  \#189938 - Grid displays fine when placed inside a hidden bootstrap tab.
*  \#190908, \#191541 - Resizing the column in Grid works fine with column chooser hidden in the top. 
*  \#192385 - With large number of records the waiting popup is not shown after closing the filter dialog without filtering.
## ejKanban

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejkanban-bug-fixes}

*  \#193983 – Numeric text box formatting issue with other culture is fixed.

## ejListBox

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejlistbox-bug-fixes}

* \#192932 - Performance issue with loading 100+ records of ListBox enabled with check box is  fixed. 
* \#F133613 - Drag and drop is performing properly after virtual scrolling is performed.   
* \#190906 - The change event triggered two times after selecting text continuously if the specifying selectedIndex property issue has been fixed.
## ejListView

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejlistview-bug-fixes}

* \#193220 - Render blank template for no data onto ListView has been fixed.
## ejMap

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejmap-bug-fixes}

* \#191065 - Now, tooltip and border for multi-polygons are rendered properly.
## ejMaskEdit

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejmaskedit-bug-fixes}

* \#191735 - The issue on validate the value through the set model of MaskEdit component has fixed.
## ejNavigationDrawer

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejnavigationdrawer-bug-fixes}

* \#190160 - Provided support for canceling the beforeClose event.
## ejPdfViewer

### Features
{:#ejPdfViewer-features}

* \#190927 - Provided support for tracking download status on the client side of the PDF viewer control.
* \#189014 – Exposed APIs for performing text search operations.


### Bug Fixes
{:#ejPdfViewer-bug-fixes}

* \#190571 - Color of the pages in the provided PDF document will not be inverted anymore, when the PDF viewer control is rendered in MS Edge browser.
* \#193166 - PDF document form fields are not misplaced anymore in the PDF viewer control.
* \#191487 - Form fields data are now maintained after adding the signature certificate to the PDF document.
* \#191396 - Previously added handwritten Signatures are now rendered properly.
* \#186005 - Horizontal scrollbar does not appear anymore when in fit-to-page mode.
* \#189182 – Scrolling will work properly if the page set as ‘fit to page’ mode when the container height is set to 500px.




## ejPivotChart

### Bug fixes
{:#ejpivotchart-bug-fixes}

*  \#192587 - New menu item can be added to Chart drill up/down menu properly. 

## ejPivotClient

### Bug fixes	
{:#ejpivotclient-bug-fixes}

*  \#192765, #195012 - Spanning occurs properly while dropping field in PivotClient.

### Features	
{:#ejpivotclient-features}

*  \#192322 – Provided option to view all the available members for “Without All” member hierarchy.
*   Value sorting can be done in PivotGrid inside PivotClient.

## ejReportViewer

### Bug Fixes	
{:#ejreportviewer-bug-fixes}

* \#194334 - Now, break tag render properly for HTML content in ReportViewer.

* \#194175 - Resolved drillthrough action event triggered twice when action specified for both text box report item and run text.

* \#192461 - Resolved the parameter block rendering issue for hidden parameter in parameter layout. 

* \#192505 - Now, the default parameter is loaded properly when value type set as null. 

## ejRTE

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejrte-bug-fixes}

* #194230 - RichTextEditor's iframe scroller does not navigate to top automatically, after being dragged down.
## ejSchedule

### Breaking Changes
{:#ejschedule-breaking-changes}
* \#192566, \#194125 - Appointment resizes properly now, when field names are mapped with custom names.

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejschedule-bug-fixes}

* \#193950 - Date value format in quick window is displaying correctly now as per the assigned culture.
* \#193678 - All-day appointments are displaying properly now, if its start and end time is less than control's start hour.
* \#193178 - Dates in Agenda view is navigating correctly, when `showWeekend` is set to false.
* \#192963 - Work hours are highlighted properly now, when different major slot values are given.
* \#184786 - Work-week days are rendering correctly now, when `firstDayOfWeek` property is set with specific value.
* \#190688, \#193577 - Block Appointments are rendering properly in IE browser now, with jQuery version 3.2.1.
* \#192337 - Appointments are rendering properly in month view, when template option is defined on appointments.
* \#191978 - Drag and drop of appointments is working properly now, with different major and minor slot values set to it.
* \#192494 - Delete event is made to raise now, after deleting one of the edited recurrence instance.
* \#191428, \#191636 - Appointments are displaying properly in Edge browser, on all views with `timeScale` option disabled.
* \#190617 - Accessibility enhancements on view and date navigation is done.
* \#190884 - Major and minor time slot values are displaying correctly now, while using different `timeScale` option.
* \#188880 - Resource color gets applied on appointments properly now, when no color value is defined for category option.



## ejSpreadsheet

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejspreadsheet-bug-fixes}

* \#194059 – Issue with cell selection while clicking the cell randomly is fixed.
* \#193897 – Issue with importing scatter chart is fixed.
* \#188455 – Issue with chart while loading stream into the Spreadsheet is fixed.
* \#192938 – Issue with exporting the chart and its data source in different sheets is fixed.
* \#191964 – Issue with hovering Y-Axis values in chart is fixed.
* \#190715 – Issue with chart when data range containing percentage values is fixed.
* \#190729 – Issue with undo redo, while copy paste the value in dropdownlist cell type is fixed.
* \#189594 – Issue with copy paste on dropdownlist cell type is fixed.
* \#133249 – Issue with chart series not rendered properly while importing is fixed.
* \#193591 – Issue with datepicker celltype values are not maintained while scrolling is fixed.
* \#193531 – Issue with show/hide formula bar while navigating the sheets is fixed.
* \#191848 – Issue with importing date values and text formatted formula values is fixed.
* \#191879 – Issue with importing formula having dependent cells from other sheets as argument is fixed.
* \#190487 – Issue with filtering checkbox option list on columns that contain formulas is fixed.
* \#189610 – Issue with exporting chart X-Axis values in the Spreadsheet is fixed.
* \#192938 – Issue with chart labels are overlapped in X-Axis is fixed.
* \#193867 – Issue with isReadOnly attribute causes the border to disappear is fixed.
* \#190729 – Improved performance for adding multiple dropdown list in Spreadsheet.
* \#190294 – Provided show hide option support for context menu in Spreadsheet.
* \#190480 – Provided support to maintain the applied borders in merge cell on importing.
* \#190480 – Provided support for merge cells with cell formatting.
* \#191470 – Provided support for setting entire cells as locked cell option like Microsoft Excel.
* \#190480 – Provided support to apply borders on Merged cells.
* \#189958, #193552 – Provided support to update formula reference values on deleting row.
* \#190754 – Provided method to clear all the sheets.
* \#189594 – Provided option to get a dropdown list value.

## ejTreeGrid

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejtreegrid-bug-fixes}

* \#192260 – Now in checkbox row selection, the `rowSelected` event will be triggered while check/uncheck action using keyboard space key.
## ejTreeMap


### Bug Fixes
{:#ejtreemap-bug-fixes}

* \#192554 - Labels are displayed properly during drill-down.

