---
title 		: Essential Studio for JavaScript 2017 Volume 1 Service Pack 1 Release Notes
description : Essential Studio for JavaScript 2017 Volume 1 Service Pack 1 Release Notes
platform 	: js
---

# Essential Studio for JavaScript Release Notes

{% include release-info.html date=site.releasedate.2017_vol_1_sp1 version=site.version.2017_vol_1_sp1 %} 




## ejCalculate

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejcalculate-bug-fixes}

* #172400 – IF formula which contains EXACT formula as argument is now working properly.
## ejCurrencyTextbox

### Features
{:#ejcurrencytextbox-features}

* \#171047 - Provided option to overwrite the existing currency symbol which is derived from current culture using “currencySymbol” API

## ejDropDownList

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejdropdownlist-bug-fixes}

* \#172907 -  The issue "DropDownList 'getSelectedValue' method always return string" has been resolved.
## ejFileExplorer

### Bug Fixes	
{:#ejfileexplorer-bug-fixes}

* \#F128892, \#173642- The “ejFileExplorer” control renders properly in mobile mode without any script error.
## ejGantt

### Features
{:#ejgantt-features}

* \#170740 – Now it is possible to map the work field from data source by using `workMapping` property.


## ejGrid

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejGrid-bug-fixes}

*  \#172148, \#172148 - Scroll bar renders perfectly when using filter with `frozenColumns`.
*  \#171455 - Selection of row is retained perfectly after `cancelEdit`.
*  \#172670 - Exporting works fine with Date column as the grouped column.
*  \#172977 - The `filterBarTemplate` reorder properly while reordering the columns.
*  \#171545 - `updateRecord` method updates the record in another page.
*  \#171772 - `editTemplate` updates original value of checkbox while editing a boolean column.
*  \#171442 - Bottom border is visible for the last row when `isResponsive` is enabled.
*  \#170447 - Now `rowSelected` event is added in grid model while refreshing the grid.
*  \#170829, \#172252 - Grid column and row details are obtained in `contextOpen` event of grid.
*  \#169441 - Delete confirm dialog works fine when `delete` using unbound column inside `DialogTemplate`.


### Breaking Changes
{:#ejgrid-breaking-changes}

* In Grid the excel filter dialog wrapper will be created only after clicking the corresponding column filter icon instead of rendering the filter dialogs during the initial render itself.
## ejKanban

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejkanban-bug-fixes}

*  \#173056 – Search box watermark text is added in locale text’s.
*  \#173055 - Card double click event is triggering when editing set to false.
*  \#172228 – Provided option in events to prevent card double click behavior.
## ejListBox

### Bug Fixes	
{:#ejlistbox-bug-fixes}

* \#172261 - Problem with maintaining the selected item on page reload, when grouping and persistence enabled in ListBox have been fixed.
* \#171866 - Issue with setting loadDataOnInit property in ListBox template has been fixed.


## PDF Viewer

### Features
{:#pdfviewer-features}

* \#170781 - documentUnload event is included in ejPdfViewer.

### Bug Fixes
{:#pdfviewer-bug-fixes}

* \#172739 - Script error will no longer be thrown when we scroll the PDF document with higher zoom values in the PDF viewer
* \#173194 - The PDF file extension handling in the `load()` API of PDF Viewer control is moved to the server side.
* \#172739 - No error will be thrown in PDF viewer when FitToWidth mode is given during control initialization.
## ejPivotClient

### Bug fixes	
{:#ejpivotclient-bug-fixes}

* \#172337  - Cursor is not displayed inside DropDownList control now.
* \#172663  - Context menu opens on time while TreeView has huge data in PivotClient. 

### Features
{:#ejpivotclient-features}

* \#171119 - Performance constraint in Member Editor paging has been resolved. 
* \#172425 - PivotPager has been improved in such a way that column and row pager text can be altered as well as pager will be disabled when page count is equal to 1. 
* \#172663 - Member Editor dialog positioning has been changed right below the split button.  
* \#172191, #173162 - Provided support to access calculated members from Cube.
* \#166400, #167266 - Shown filter status in split button of Slicer axis in PivotClient. 



## ejPivotTreeMap `Preview`

The PivotTreeMap control lets the user to visualize OLAP data in the form of nested nodes in hierarchical order with the ability to drill up and down.

### Features
{:#ejpivottreemap-features}

* \#170069 - Support for rendering PivotTreeMap with two measures has been provided. 
## ejRadioButton

### Bug Fixes	
{:#ejradiobutton-bug-fixes}

* \#173115- Now RadioButton can be checked when click the RadioButton text.


## ReportViewer

### Bug Fixes    
{:#ejreportviewer-bug-fixes}
* \#173084, #173085 - Now, Zoom functionalities working properly from dropdown list zoom values.

* \#168984 - Resolved Header text are rendered outside the container area issue in print preview.

## ejRibbon

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejribbon-bug-fixes}

* \#172837 - Group id parameter is added now to support group text with special character.


## ejSpreadsheet

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejspreadsheet-bug-fixes}

* \#171918 - Issue with the unwanted actionComplete event has been triggered while using saveAsJSON is fixed.
* \#171943 - Issue with data manager query not maintained properly while scrolling is fixed.
* \#171941 - Issue with clipboard operation not working outside of the Spreadsheet in Mac is fixed.
* \#172855 - Provided client side event for cell types.
* \#171941 - Provided clipboard operation using Command key in Mac and option for paste values only.
* \#170928 - Provided an option for selecting cell behind value in dropdown list cell type automatically.
## ejTreeGrid

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejtreegrid-bug-fixes}

* \#172160 – Issue in exporting cell contents preceded with zeros in excel has been fixed.
* \#172082 – Issue with focusing drop down list on cell editing has been fixed.
* \#171840, \#172821 – Exporting issue with parent id value as string has been fixed. 
* \#172882 – Now TreeGrid columns can be rendered without mapping the field value.
* \#172821 - Now drag tooltip is removed properly while canceling the row drag action.





## ejTreeView

### Bug Fixes	
{:#ejtreeview-bug-fixes}

* \#172766- The “unselectAll” method unselect all the nodes, while enable full row selection support also in TreeView control.


