---
title 		: Essential Studio for JavaScript 2017 Volume 3 Release Notes
description : Essential Studio for JavaScript 2017 Volume 3 Release Notes
platform 	: js
---

# Essential Studio for JavaScript Release Notes

{% include release-info.html date=site.releasedate.2017_vol_3 version=site.version.2017_vol_3 %} 



## Common

### Features

{:#common-features}

* /#178785 – Provided support to “show the selected theme name in Theme Studio application”.


### Bug Fixes
{:#common-bug-fixes}

* /# 183117 – The issue “When using our source styles in mobile application, unable to use the external font icons” has been fixed. 
* /# 183719 - Issue with CSS in angular CLI is fixed.
* /# 182808 - Issue with webpack with babel loader is fixed.
* /# 180489 - Issue with localization while using RequireJS is fixed.



## ejAutocomplete

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejautocomplete-bug-fixes}

* \#178713 - Issue with triggering select event for Autocomplete using `selectValueByText` method has been fixed.
* \#178632 - Issue with closing suggestion list pop-up while clicking the reset icon in IE has been fixed.
* \#182962 -  Selected item is highlighted when the popup is opened.

## ejCalculate

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejcalculate-bug-fixes}

 *	\#182008 - Text concatenation is now working properly while concatenating the text with the result of the CHOOSE formula.
 *	\#182550 - Dependent formula cells are now updated properly when the value of precedent cell is changed.

## ejChart

### Features
{:#ejchart-features}

* \#140907, \#176526 - Provided support for rendering stacking spline area and 100% stacking spline area series types.
* \#142887, \#180953 - Provided support for rendering the inside and outside data labels in different colors. 
* \#175482 - Provided support to control the animation speed of the elements in the chart.
* Provided support for rendering various types of spline curves.

### Bug fixes
{:#ejchart-bug-fixes}

* \#176897 – Now the data labels are rendering properly, when we specify [`enableSmartLabels`](https://help.syncfusion.com/api/js/ejchart#members:series-enablesmartlabels) property as true and [`angle`](https://help.syncfusion.com/api/js/ejchart#members:series-marker-datalabel-angle) set to 90 degree. 
* \#179119 – Legend position is now calculated properly while rendering the chart inside the grid.
* \#179170 – Range interval of the [`dateTime axis`](https://help.syncfusion.com/api/js/ejchart#members:primaryxaxis-valuetype) is now remain unchanged, while redrawing the chart.  
* F130508 – Pie series with [`data label template`](https://help.syncfusion.com/api/js/ejchart#members:series-marker-datalabel-template) is now rendering properly.
* \#180315 – Chart with single data point in [`category axes`](https://help.syncfusion.com/api/js/ejchart#members:primaryxaxis-valuetype) is now rendering properly, when [`enableCanvasRendering`](https://help.syncfusion.com/api/js/ejchart#members:enablecanvasrendering) property is set to true.
* \#180511 – Data labels are now center aligned to the bubble series.
* \#180808 – Now the tooltip is working properly, while rendering the chart inside the grid control.
* \#181702 – Now the data points in [`dateTime category axes`](https://help.syncfusion.com/api/js/ejchart#members:primaryxaxis-valuetype) are rendering properly, when toggling the legend.
* F110871 – Chart control is now rendering properly with empty data source
* \#182774 - Gradient color is now applying properly for area type series.
* \#182751, \#184269 - Fill color specified in the point is now applying properly, even if the [`columnFacet`](https://help.syncfusion.com/api/js/ejchart#members:series-columnfacet) property is set as **cylinder**.
* F131310 - Now the [`DataLabel`](https://help.syncfusion.com/api/js/ejchart#members:series-marker-datalabel) which collides with the legend is positioned smartly.
* F131428 - [`RangeSelected`](https://help.syncfusion.com/api/js/ejchart#events:rangeselected) event is now returning the selected data properly.
## ejCheckBox

### Bug Fixes	
{:#ejcheckbox-bug-fixes}

* \#181179 - On initial rendering, long text content will not float to next line in mobile resolution.

### Breaking Changes

* Default value of the CheckBox is changed from "true" to "null".
## ejDataManager

### Features

{:#ejdatamanager-features}

* The DataManager now supports the WebAPI Batch operations like add, remove and change.The request for the operations are handled altogether at a time rather than being passed separately for each operation.

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejdatamanager-bug-fixes}

* \#179498 -  Records are now prevented from being deleted in grid control, when batch edit mode is used in remoteSaveAdaptor.


## ejDatePicker

### Bug Fixes	
{:#ejdatepicker-bug-fixes}

* \#180833 - Value of DatePicker changes due to time zone difference has been resolved.

### Features
{:#ejdatepicker-features}

* \#172829- Provided new property “weekNumber” to show the week's numbers in new column in the DatePicker popup.

## ejDiagram


### Bug fixes
{:#ejDiagram-bug-fixes}

* \#179258 – ContextMenu flickering issue fixed while diagram exceeds the document size and focus on the diagram. 
* \#179108 - The phase label text set as default value when providing the phase label text as empty string is fixed.
* \#178365 - `contextMenuBeforeOpen` event returns incorrect object value on touch is fixed.
* \#178839 - When we set the `MultiSelect` tool alone, the individual node should not be selected is fixed.
* \#177993 - Need to get a swim lane object with its swim lane structure in the historyManager's `canLog` method is fixed.
* \#177613 - Unable to select BPMN Gateway shape in swim lane is fixed.
* \#177392 - Enabling the port constraints `ConnectOnDrag`, node ports is not hidden, when mouse leaves the node is fixed.
* \#177296 - If node's label contains empty new line, then its not exported properly in SVG format is fixed.
* \#177297 - While perform drag and drop and undo, `cause` returns incorrect value in `nodeCollectionChange` and `historyChange` event is fixed.
* \#174732 - Exception raised while removing the child from group and adding the child in the group node at runtime is fixed.
* \#181438 – The diagram contextMenu working properly while rendering it in different culture.
* \#180343 – The hidden label exported properly in SVG format.
* \#178994 – NodeTemplate method working properly while loading the diagram.
* \#178994 – Node's shape property works in the nodeTemplate function.
* \#178770 – Connector docks correctly in BPMN event Shapes on save and load.
* \#180332 – Zorder working properly for multiple nodes.
* \#177876 – The text box on the html node can be edited now.
* \#181388 – Exception raised while performing undo/redo the lane header text change is fixed.
* \#183043 – Scale property working properly while exporting the diagram into different format.
* \#183475 – Node/port highlighter removed while deactivating the tool.
* \#183748 – When we delete the lane and perform undo action, the cause is unknown in the nodeCollectionChange and connectorCollectionChange event is fixed.
* \#182961 – Undo working properly while selecting and dragging the multiple nodes with connectors in swimlane and undo the action.
* \#182868 – Unable to expand vertical swimlane to the right is fixed.


### Features

* \#131536, #150342, #161966, #173422 - Ruler support for diagram control is added.
* \#156753 - Support is provided to specify root node for layout.
* \#137249 - Support to hide the selection handles when it is overlapping with each other is added.
* \#154925 - Support to prevent the resizing of built-in shapes(children) available in the `BPMNNode` is added.
* \#165028, #169289 - Visual representation and performance of layout with multiple parents has been improved.
* \#176645 - Polyline support for diagram control is added.
* \#175928 - Support to update the label position based on nearest offset while dragging the label from connector is added.
* Support to remove the labels and ports at runtime is added.
* Support to drag the multiple selected nodes when click on the empty space of the selection rectangle is added.

### Breaking Changes

* Default value of PageSetting.ScrollLimit is changed from `infinity` to `diagram`.
* In earlier releases, while specifying the swimlane/lane's `Header` text as empty, default text value will be set to swimlane/lane. Now if it is left empty, header will not be visible.
## ejDialog

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejdialog-bug-fixes}

* \#179748 - Issue with emptying footer template text of Dialog, while updating it using `setModel` option has been fixed.
* \#178651 - Provided default scrolling support, when we reach end of scrollable content in Dialog.
* \#182991 - Misalignment in rendering pager control inside Dialog has been resolved.
## ejDropDownList

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejdropdownlist-bug-fixes}

* \#183730 - Checking and unchecking an item works even when quotes are present between texts.
* \#182575 - When performing filter search in multiselect DropDownList, the model value doesn't gets updated.
* \#183011 - Hidden input element is now validated properly in multiselect mode of DropDownList.
* \#182703 - Two way binding is now working with value property in second DropDownList, when cascading is enabled.
## ejFileExplorer

### Features
{:#ejfileexplorer-features}

* \#I174459, I177188 – Provided support to  “access the application root folder and display the alternate text for the root folder name in FileExplorer control”.



### Bug Fixes	
{:#ejfileexplorer-bug-fixes}

* \#182510 – The issue “FileExplorer control throws error when disabled the showNavigationPane property and render inside the Kanban control” has been fixed.

* \#180695 - Navigation issue in FileExplorer documentation has been corrected.

* \#178703 - Sorting support does not work on `folder` column issue has been fixed.

* \#174459 - Not able to display the root folder “/” as the path of FileExplorer issue has been fixed.


## ejGantt

### Features
{:#ejgantt-features}
* \#174964, #135647, #141294, #146309, #153127, #180223 – Support for changing the working days in a week has been implemented.
* \#134624, #136364, #146615, #178082 – Now the client side event triggering has been optimized, such that for simultaneous data update, only one event will be triggered with all the data, instead of multiple event triggers.
* \#178082 – Now it is possible to validate the action while editing the taskbars linked with predecessors.
* \#180223 – Support for mapping the resource units at initial load for the resources assigned to a task has been implemented.
* \#179180 – Now the performance has been improved for taskbar editing action in Firefox browser.

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejgantt-bug-fixes}

* \#180638 – Row alignment issue in Gantt has been fixed.
* \#181547 - Issue in updating the duration of milestone task has been fixed.
* \#180215 - Issue in exporting Gantt as Excel file with resources has been fixed.
* \#184157 - Issue in updating background color of milestone and milestone baseline has been fixed.






## ejGrid

### Features
{:#ejGrid-features}

*  \#180265 - Added different font-family like "Segoe UI" and "Helvetica Neue" for Linux OS.
*  \#180384 - Provided template support for `subContextMenu` of Grid `contextMenuSettings`.
*  \#180098 - Selection keyboard navigation works fine after performing CRUD operations.


### Bug Fixes
{:#ejGrid-bug-fixes}

*  \#180216 - "e-" is added as prefix for ejGrid responsive CSS class selectors.
*  \#181469 - Included the original event details in the argument of `recordClick` event.
*  \#182616 - Grid renders fine when editing a record with `startEdit` method after adding records with `addRecord` method.
*  \#183717, \#184055 - `EllipsisWithTooltip` renders fine for rows in IE browsers.
*  \#182324 - String menu options works fine in locale text.
*  \#182094 - Scrollbar works fine when sorting the columns with `frozenColumns` in Grid.
*  \#181271 - Record double click is not triggered when selecting rows too quickly in Grid.
*  \#181386 - Inserting a new record using insert key in an empty grid works fine.
*  \#173181 - Horizontal scrolling works fine while moving over the scrollbar in IE 11.
*  \#177215, \#180252 - Total summary in Grid footer aligns properly when horizontal scroller is moved.
*  \#175300 - Clear Filtering works fine with special characters in field names.
*  \#182980 - The scroller in Grid renders fine when editing the Grid using `InlineTemplateForm`.
*  \#182959 - Filtering works fine for the same value after clearing the filtering using `clearFiltering` method.
*  \#174922 - Grid Filter dialog displays fine when the grid is inside the tab page.
## ejGroupButton

### Bug Fixes	
{:#ejgroupbutton-bug-fixes}

* \#182919 - In GroupButton, "cssClass" property is working properly on initial rendering.

* \#182919 - The behavior of "radiobutton mode" in GroupButton has been corrected.

## ejKanban

### Features	
{:#ejkanban-features}

* Feature to show/hide the cards based on key value mapping. It can group the cards using key value and enables to toggle the display.

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejkanban-bug-fixes}

*  \#178961 – Provided option to turn off column key filtering through load client side event.
*  \#177568 – Swim lane toggle method is working while using key with special character(~).
*  \#176713 – Dynamically adding empty column array through set model method issue is fixed.
*  \#176713 – Issue with adding new column dynamically with empty Kanban is fixed.
*  \#180821 – Script error issue is resolved while using remote data with filtering and enableTotalCount.
*  \#183684 - Issue with toggling columns when we specify more number of columns in Kanban have been fixed.
*  \#F130956, #F130951 - Issue in updating cards when `keyField` value is not specified in editing template have been resolved.
## ejListBox

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejlistbox-bug-fixes}

* \#178842 - The issue with `moveUp` and `moveDown` method in ListBox enabled with check-box or multi-selection has been fixed.
* \#179936 - Issue with maintaining value property of ListBox in KnockoutJS, when an item is checked or unchecked have been fixed.
* \#182195 - The issue on adding item in Listbox with check-box and grouping enabled has been fixed.
* \#F130872 - Issue on getting wrong arguments in drag and drop events has been fixed.
* \#181896 -  Issue with sorting templated Listbox has been resolved.
## ejListView

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejlistview-bug-fixes}

* \#177459 - Issue with updating checked items value on clicking the check-box of ListView item has been fixed.
## ejMaskEdit

### Features
{:#ejmaskedit-features}

* \#147183 – Provided Globalization support for MaskEdit Component.


## ejMenu

### Bug Fixes

{:#ejmenu-bug-fixes}

* \#180805 - Context menu will be positioned correctly, even when right clicked at the bottom of target element.
## ejPdfViewer

### Features
{:#ejPdfViewer-features}

* \#171883, #177612, #179868 - Provided support for adding handwritten signature into the PDF document. 
* \#174054 - Provided support for the mandatory form fields in the PDF documents.
* \#176171 - Provided the separate mode for text selection and scrolling.
* \#176168 - Improved the quality of the page rendering in the high-resolution devices.
* \#176168 - Improved the pinch zooming performance in the high-resolution devices.
* \#178539 - Provided support to restrict editing of form fields based on restriction summary available in the PDF document. 
* \#174628, #178539 - Provided support to maintain the form fields as read only in the PDF documents, if it has read only property set.



### Bug Fixes
{:#ejPdfViewer-bug-fixes}

* \#183025 - The issue in considering the text alignment property in the form fields has been resolved.
* \#178834 - Script error will no longer be thrown when setting the fit to width for the PDF document.
* \#173834 - The Checkbox and Textbox field borders are now visible when the focus state changes.
* \#173834 - Dropdown and List box field's text contents are now visible in the dark theme.
* \#177493 - The current page now fits to viewport when view mode is set to fit to page.
* \#173834 - Check box content is now rendered properly.
* \#178536 - The PDF document's text contents are rendered properly.
* \#178540 - Restriction summary of the PDF document property is now working fine.
* \#177922 - Color of the contents in the PDF document are now preserved properly.
* \#177922 - Image content in the PDF document is now rendered properly.
* \#178926 - Script error will no longer be thrown on zooming the provided PDF document.
* \#178534 - The PDF document content is now rendered properly.
* \#178535 - Text contents in the PDF document are no longer overlapped.
* \#173831 - Text selection and search are now working fine even when unicode characters are presented in the text div element. 
* \#164281 - Restricted the page extraction based on the settings available in the encrypted PDF documents.
* \#180342 - The proper casing is provided to the keys in the AJAX request during the download operations.
* \#179586 - The colors of the image now preserve properly while rendering the PDF document.






## ejPivotClient

### Bug fixes	
{:#ejpivotclient-bug-fixes}

* \#171119 - Filter state is updated properly for label/value option, while member filter is applied.


## ejPivotGrid

### Bug fixes	
{:#ejpivotgrid-bug-fixes}

* \#183464 - PivotGrid cells are displayed properly while performing column resizing.

### Features
{:#ejpivotgrid-features}

* \#178102 - Load-on-demand support has been provided while performing drill down operation for relational data source.
* \#143812, #178298 - Paging support has been provided for relational data source.

## ejRadialMenu

### Features	
{:#ejradialmenu-features}

* \#175308 - Provided template support for RadialMenu items using `prependTo` property, we can add valid SVG element to it.
## ejRadialSlider

### Features	
{:#ejradialslider-features}

* Provided globalization support for RadialSlider ticks and value. Enables to customize culture based values for the component.
## ejReportViewer

### Features

* \#178228 – Provided exporting support to map image URL directly for image report item.

### Bug Fixes	
{:#ejreportviewer-bug-fixes}

* \#178954 - Now the N1 and N0 number format applied properly in Excel export.

* \#180836 - The incorrect vertical alignment for tablix cell has been resolved.

* \#180459 - Now, `Free 3 of 9` font is rendered properly in chrome and Mozilla firefox browser.

* \#180381 - The parameter dependents on a text box parameter value input is updating properly.

* \#180059 - The `DateTimeOffset` expression produces the correct result output.

* \#180381 - The drop-down parameter improper rendering in mobile layout has been resolved.

* \#179946 - Now, the default value is updates properly for boolean parameters.

* \#180381 - Resolved the incorrect localization text rendering for date time parameters.

## ejRibbon

### Features	
{:#ejribbon-features}

* \#178783 - Provided the cssClass API for ejRibbon, to customize the control appearance.
## ejRTE

### Features

{:#ejrte-features}

* Spell Checked is now integrated into RTE control and can be used to provide suggestions in Dialog and Context menu modes.
* Rendering performance is now improved and is much better than earlier. The rendering of sub controls like Dialog, Color picker and Numeric textbox is done on demand, instead initial rendering.

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejrte-bug-fixes}

* \#181420 - When enableXHTML property is set to true and a file is imported, console error is no longer thrown.
* \#180585 - Styles are now added to the newly inserted row in the table, which is imported from word file.
* \#181533 - The missing definition for ExecuteCommand's parameters are now included in TypeScript.
* \#180585 - New row can be added now, when `Tab` key is pressed at the last cell of the table with one row.
* \#176634, #179558, #182260 - Console error is no longer thrown in RTE control, when Background color and Font color toolbar items are clicked.
## ejSchedule

### Features
{:#ejschedule-features}

* \#132062, \#132560 - Scheduler is now provided with an option to allow the user to create/edit the appointments inline, by single clicking on the cells/appointments. 

* \#176154 - While editing a recurrence appointment in series mode, to prevent the changes on the previously edited occurrences of this recurrence appointment - then `ignoreEditedOccurrences` argument can be set to true within the `beforeAppointmentChange` event function.
* Scheduler provides option to enable/disable the delete functionality of appointments through `allowDelete` API.
* Scheduler provides an additional option to edit/delete only the following occurrences of a recurrence appointment. 
* Scheduler provides option to drag and drop appointments from one week to another week, simply by holding the appointments either in the first or last date column for some specific delay time.

### Breaking changes
{:#ejschedule-breaking-changes}
* \#181307, \#183269 - Appointments are rendering correctly, when the current view has more than 100 appointments.

### Bug fixes
{:#ejschedule-bug-fixes}

* \#175407 - Alert window with required information will be displayed, while editing the entire recurrence series.
* \#176810 - Both header and work cells are aligned properly, when the time scale is switched off.
* \#176044 - Recurrence appointments are rendering correctly in the presence of DST.
* \#176198 - Script error will not occur now, while editing the whole series in the recurrence appointment.
* \#176869 - Appointments are rendering correctly in the presence of DST.
* \#175847 - Scheduler is printing correctly, with no last days cut-off at the end.
* \#177511 - The Scheduler cells are aligned correctly now, while using `cellHeight` property.
* \#177189 - Double tap event over Scheduler appointments and cells is working fine in iPad.
* \#177678 - Appointment width and height will remain same while drag and dropping in the same interval.
* \#176227 - Recurrence appointments are rendering correctly in the presence of DST.
* \#178732 - Month view header will not disappear now, after scrolling the scroll bar in week view.
* \#179247 - The current expand/collapse state of the resource header will be maintained on every view navigation in horizontal resource grouping.
* \#177678 - Appointments are rendering correctly in month view, after drag and resize.
* \#178972 - An issue with cells getting misaligned in mobile mode while using timescale template has been fixed.
* \#176955 - Alert will be displayed while editing the series appointment(s), notifying the user that every related edited occurrence will also be affected.
* \#159321 - Recurrence rule of an appointment will be updated properly, while editing through custom window.
* \#131046 - Issue with Scheduler days not navigating correctly, when `showWeekend` is set to false has been fixed.
* \#181230 - Header cells are not misaligned now, when work-week view is rendered with 7 days.
* \#183541 - Event `appointmentWindowOpen` is now triggering for all-day appointments when template option is applied for cells.
* \#131542 - Work cells will not be misaligned when date header template and `cellWidth` options are used together.
* \#182717 - Now able to drag and drop the Long day appointments correctly.
* \#182425, \#183009 - AllDay appointments are rendering correctly with minorSlotCount as 1 and 4
* \#181826, \#183009 - Current date is retrieved correctly at controller side when load on demand option is enabled.



## ejScrollBar

### Bug Fixes	
{:#ejscrollbar-bug-fixes}

* \#181157 - Content area get hide while using "autoHide" property is now fixed.

* \#182094 - Refreshing the scroller will not affect the scrollbars of Target Pane.
## ejSignature

### Bug Fixes	
{:#ejSignature-bug-fixes}

* \#180815 - Strokes breaking issue on mouse interaction in Signature is fixed.
## ejSlider

### Features
{:#ejslider-features}

* /#162567, #133892, #147183 - We have provided the `renderingTicks` event to customize the slider scale ticks value.

### Bug fixes
{:#ejslider-bug-fixes}

* \#178296 – In Knockout, issue with two-way binding of `value` property for range Slider was resolved.
## ejSpellCheck

### Features
{:#ejspellcheck-features}

* Synchronous mode can be enabled by setting `enableAsync` to false.
## ejSpreadsheet

### Features	
{:#ejspreadsheet-features}

* \#169150, 173569, 178299, 183197 - Provided support for chart with discontinuous range.

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejspreadsheet-bug-fixes}

* \#180749 - Issue with named range and misalignment in the name manager dialog is fixed.
* \#178198 - Issue with accounting format while importing is fixed.
* \#178929 - Issue while exporting a file the dropdown datasource becomes empty is fixed. 
* \#180029 - Issue with chart element, Hyperlink and filtering action complete arguments are not proper is fixed.
* \#182786 - Issue with importing the protected excel file, when defining the password on server side is fixed.
* \#183236 - Issue with expression calculation in formula is fixed.
* \#183292 - Issue with conditional formatting for blank cells is fixed.
* \#182640 - Issue while exporting file with exceeded row height limit is fixed.
* \#179620 - Issue with row height and selection when updating data with new lines is fixed.
* \#182719 - Issue with custom buttons disabling while using disableRibbonItems method is fixed.
* \#183179 - Issue with importing the formula contained excel with its sheet name having symbols is fixed. 
* \#175947 - Issue with cell selection misbehaves on merge cells is fixed.
* \#183285 - Issue with resizeEnd client side event arguments returned wrong height is fixed.
* \#182638 - Issue with mismatched sheet index while importing is fixed.
* \#182008 - Issue with chart position update with freeze panes is fixed.
* \#183466 - Provided support for handling custom error messages while importing.
* \#183187 - Provided actionBegin event for paste action.

## ejTab

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejtab-bug-fixes}

* \#183637 - Scroller and pager now works properly with RTL mode inside tab.
* \#179223 - `Tab` Key navigation now works with filter search box in dropdownlist.
## ejTextBoxes

### Features
{:#ejtextboxes-features}

* \#180057 - Provided the `positivePattern` support for ejNumericTextbox.

### Bug Fixes	
{:#ejtextboxes-bug-fixes}

* \#179573- When the text box value is in selection state, it will allow to enter the negative value.


## ejTile

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejtile-bug-fixes}

* \#183119 – Issue on setting both `imageUrl` and `imageTemplateId` has been fixed.
## ejTimePicker

### Bug Fixes	
{:#ejtimepicker-bug-fixes}

* \#183802 - TimePicker not gets scroll in touch-action issue has been fixed .

* \#183802 - Now, we can edit the value via keyboard when the timepicker input is empty.

## ejToolbar

### Features
{:#ejtoolbar-features}

* Provided support for `Tab` key and `Shift+Tab` key to navigate through the toolbar items.


## ejTooltip

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejtoolbar-bug-fixes}

* \#182307 - Timeouts are now cleared in destroy function of tooltip.
* \#179600 - Positioning of Tooltip now works properly with Firefox browser.
## ejTreeGrid

### Features
{:#ejtreegrid-features}
* \#152870, #160596, #164655, #143792, #175532, #177013 – Support for binding data using load on demand approach has been implemented.
* \#148114, #156239, #166008, #166017, #166752, #177185, #180702, #182712 – Word wrap support has been implemented for the TreeGrid columns.
* \#171605, #181564 – Now the TreeGrid columns will be responsive based on the provided priority values.
* \#175633, #176173 – Now it is possible to perform CRUD actions using buttons in command column.
* \#139356, #141369, #161198, #165560, #176873 – Support for printing the TreeGrid contents has been implemented.
* \#178636 – Now it is possible to resize the frozen columns in TreeGrid.
* \#176243 – Now it is possible to edit the cell values using custom editor template in TreeGrid.

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejtreegrid-bug-fixes}
* \#177199, #178403 – Issue with column resizer line not removed when resizing the columns has been fixed.
* \#178281- Now the default context menu will be displayed on mouse right click while the TreeGrid context menu is disabled.
* Now the cell text can be selected while the cell is in edit mode.
* \#180866 – Alignment issues with expand/collapse icons in row template has been fixed.
* \#183625 – Issue in drag and drop icons position with row template has been fixed. 
* \#183783 – Now the datasource can be refreshed with new data manager instance by using `setModel` method.
* \#183350 – Issue in date field validation in TreeGrid has been fixed.







## ejTreeMap

### Features
{:#ejtreemap-features}

* \#162905, \#162983, \#163226 - Provided support for customizing the drilldown grouping header and text overflow for labels.

## ejTreeView

### Features
{:#ejtreeview-features}

* \#F126097 – Provided support to “get the updated data source via getTreeData() method when using remote data binding in TreeView control”.

### Bug Fixes	
{:#ejtreeview-bug-fixes}

* \#182891 – The issue “When disable the allowDropChild property in source TreeView and we unable to drop a node in the already dropped node of destination TreeView” has been fixed.

* \#181431 - The issue “Duplicate nodes are rendered when set the parentId and Id as 0” has been fixed.

* \#181880 - The issue “The `nodeDrag` event does not have correct target information when drag on the insert line” has been fixed.


## ejUploadbox

### Features

{:#ejuploadbox-features}

* New public method `upload` has been included for performing upload.

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejuploadbox-bug-fixes}

* \#179932 - CssClass property now works properly with upload dialog.
* \#178781 - When `dragAndDrop` property is enabled, Upload dialog appears properly.
