---
title 		: Essential Studio for JavaScript 2017 Volume 2 Service Pack 1 Release Notes
description : Essential Studio for JavaScript 2017 Volume 2 Service Pack 1 Release Notes
platform 	: js
---

# Essential Studio for JavaScript Release Notes

{% include release-info.html date=site.releasedate.2017_vol_2_sp1 version=site.version.2017_vol_2_sp1 %} 




## ejAutocomplete

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejautocomplete-bug-fixes}

* \#178713 - Issue with triggering select event for Autocomplete using `selectValueByText` method has been fixed.
* \#178632 - Issue with closing suggestion list pop-up while clicking the reset icon in IE has been fixed.
## ejBarcode

### Bug Fixes

{:#ejbarcode-bug-fixes}

* \#177692 - QR Barcode will be rendered properly for lengthy input.
## ejChart


### Bug Fixes
{:#ejChart-bug-fixes}

* \#176897 – Now the data labels are rendering properly, when we specify [`enableSmartLabels`](https://help.syncfusion.com/api/js/ejchart#members:series-enablesmartlabels) property as true and [`angle`](https://help.syncfusion.com/api/js/ejchart#members:series-marker-datalabel-angle) set to 90 degree. 
* \#179119 – Legend position is now calculated properly while rendering the chart inside the grid.
* \#179170 – Range interval of the [`dateTime axis`](https://help.syncfusion.com/api/js/ejchart#members:primaryxaxis-valuetype) is now remain unchanged, while redrawing the chart.  
* F130508 – Pie series with [`data label template`](https://help.syncfusion.com/api/js/ejchart#members:series-marker-datalabel-template) is now rendering properly.

## ejDatePicker

### Bug Fixes	
{:#ejdatepicker-bug-fixes}

* \#179218-In DatePicker,Popup hides on displayInline mode while page scrolling issue has been fixed.

## ejDateTimePicker

### Bug Fixes	
{:#ejdatetimepicker-bug-fixes}

* \#177393- The issue of DateTimePicker in previous DateTime argument value and current DateTime argument value is equal on close event has been fixed.
## ejDiagram

### Bug fixes
{:#ejdiagram-bug-fixes}

* \#179258 – ContextMenu Flickering issue fixed while diagram exceeds the document size and focus on the diagram. 
* \#179108 - The phase label text set as default value when providing the phase label text as empty string is fixed.
* \#178365 - `contextMenuBeforeOpen` event returns incorrect object value on touch is fixed.
* \#178839 - When we set the `MultiSelect` tool alone, the individual node should not be selected is fixed.
* \#177993 - Need to get a swim lane object with its swim lane structure in the historyManager's `canLog` method is fixed.
* \#177613 - Unable to select BPMN Gateway shape in swim lane is fixed.
* \#177392 - Enabling the port constraints `ConnectOnDrag`, node ports is not hidden, when mouse leaves the node is fixed.
* \#177296 - If node's label contains empty new line, then its not exported properly in SVG format is fixed.
* \#177297 - While perform drag and drop and undo, `cause` returns incorrect value in `nodeCollectionChange` and `historyChange` event is fixed.
* \#174732 - Exception raised while removing the child from group and adding the child in the group node at runtime is fixed.

## ejDialog

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejdialog-bug-fixes}

* \#179748 - Issue with emptying footer template text of Dialog, while updating it using `setModel` option has been fixed.
* \#178651 - Provided default scrolling support, when we reach end of scrollable dialog content.
## ejDropDownList

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejdropdownlist-bug-fixes}

* \#179223 -  The issue "Tab Key navigation in filter search input box" has been resolved.
## ejFileExplorer

### Bug Fixes	
{:#ejfileexplorer-bug-fixes}

* \#178703 - Sorting support does not work on Folder column issue has been fixed.
* \#174459 - Not able to display the root folder “/” as the path of FileExplorer issue has been fixed.


## ejGrid

### Features
{:#ejGrid-features}

*  \#176944 - Provided support for Hide or Show column through column index.
*  \#176468 - Provided support to merge grid header cells.
*  \#178030 - Provided support for Tooltip in `customToolbarItems` using `tooltip` property.


### Bug Fixes
{:#ejGrid-bug-fixes}

*  \#179153 - Grid height not changes after triggering the validation message for the cell.
*  \#179854 - `ColumnChooser` functionality works fine after performing `print` action.
*  \#179854 - Grid columns renders fine while printing, with `allowResizeToFit` as true.
*  \#179126 – Stacked headers moves while scrolling horizontal scrollbar.
*  \#178993 - Keyboard navigation works fine in edit form.
*  \#178854 - Spelling is corrected for the Grid filter dialog class in Grid filter menu.
*  \#176095 - Grid does not scroll while selecting any record in the Grid.
*  \#177921 - New row in Grid renders fine with `hidden` Grid.
*  \#177897 - `args.data` is deprecated for `rowDataBound` and `queryCellInfo` event.
*  \#175070 - Selection will not be maintained for first page after refreshing the `dataSource` of the Grid.
*  \#178044 - Validation error messages displays fine with two rows in Grid.
*  \#176661, \#179052, \#180120 - Editing works fine with edit form template.
*  \#177313 – Data Source gets updated when frozen columns and scrolling is enabled.
*  \#177509 - Grid renders fine with no duplicate rows added after refreshing the Grid.
*  \#176324 - Pressing `tab` key navigates through the Columns in Grid by skipping the Columns with `allowEditing` as false in `batch` editing.
*  \#175898 - Grid exporting works fine with `showGroupSummary` as true.
*  \#150016 - Summary value gets recalculated and updated on updating a record.
*  \#177996 - Caption summary values gets printed on print page with `showGroupedColumn` as false.
*  \#178151 - Editing an empty cell in batch editing returns an empty string.

### Breaking Changes
{:#ejgrid-breaking-changes}

*  \#177897 - `data` property of argument passed in `rowDataBound`,`templateRefresh` and `queryCellInfo` events is made obsolete for `rowDataBound`,`templateRefresh` and `queryCellInfo` events. You can use `rowData` property of argument instead.
## ejKanban

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejkanban-bug-fixes}

*  \#178961 – Provided option to turn off column key filtering through load client side event.
*  \#177568 – Swim lane toggle method is working while using key with special character(~).
*  \#176713 – Dynamically adding empty column array through set model method issue is fixed.
*  \#176713 – Issue with adding new column dynamically with empty Kanban is fixed.
## ejListBox

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejlistbox-bug-fixes}

* \#178842 - The issue with `moveUp` and `moveDown` method in ListBox enabled with check-box or multi-selection has been fixed.
* \#179936 - Issue with maintaining value property of ListBox in KnockoutJS, when an item is checked or unchecked have been fixed.
## ejListView

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejlistview-bug-fixes}

* \#177459 - Issue with updating checked items value on clicking the check-box of ListView item has been fixed.
## ejPdfViewer

### Features
{:#ejPdfViewer-features}

* \#174054 - Provided support for the mandatory form fields in the PDF documents. 
* \#176168 - Improved the quality of the page rendering in the high-resolution devices.
* \#176168 - Improved the pinch zooming performance in the high-resolution devices.
* \#158552 - Added support for finding the colored page in the PDF document.



### Bug Fixes
{:#ejPdfViewer-bug-fixes}

* \#178834 - Script error will no longer be thrown when setting the fit to width for the PDF document.
* \#173834 - The Checkbox and Textbox field borders are now visible when the focus state changes.
* \#173834 - Dropdown and List box fields text contents are now visible in the dark theme.
* \#177493 - The current page now fits to viewport when view mode is set to fit to page.
* \#173834 - Check box content is now rendered properly.
* \#178536 - The PDF document text contents are rendered properly.
* \#178540 - Restriction summary of the PDF document property is now working fine.
* \#177922 - Color of the contents in the PDF document are now preserved properly.
* \#177922 - Image content in the PDF document is now rendered properly.
* \#178926 - Script error will no longer be thrown on zooming the provided PDF document.
* \#178534 - The PDF document content is now rendered properly.
* \#178535 - Text contents in the PDF document are no longer overlapped.
* \#173831 - Text selection and search are now working fine even when unicode characters are presented in the text div element. 
## ejPivotClient

### Bug fixes	
{:#ejpivotclient-bug-fixes}

* \#178473 - Format and localization are applied properly for negative values in Excel Export.

### Features
{:#ejpivotclient-features}

* \#180005, #143563 - Sorting by label support provided for OLAP data source in server mode.
* \#178036, #178029 - Value based sorting/filter support provided when advanced filtering/sorting is enabled for OLAP data source in server mode.

## ejPivotGrid

### Bug fixes
{:#ejpivotgrid-bug-fixes}

* \#178473 - Format and localization are applied properly for negative values in Excel Export.

### Features
{:#ejpivotgrid-features}
 
* \#178100, #178099 - Support provided to apply styles for individual Pivot Fields row/column wise.
* \#178097 - Support provided to show string data type in value cells of PivotGrid. 
* \#177670 - Now "caption" text is showing value items in column headers.

## ejPivotTreeMap `Preview`

The PivotTreeMap control lets the user to visualize OLAP data in the form of nested nodes in hierarchical order with the ability to drill up and down.

### Bug fixes
{:#ejpivottreemap-bug-fixes}

* \#170069 – PivotTreeMap widget is rendering properly with Calculated Measures.
## ejReportViewer

### Bug Fixes	
{:#ejreportviewer-bug-fixes}

* \#178954 - Resolved N1 and N0 number format issue in Excel export.

## ejRTE

### Bug Fixes

{:#ejrte-bug-fixes}

* \#177061 - The issue 'Typing in RTE is sluggish in IE browser' has been fixed.
* \#176634, #179558 - The issue 'console error occurs when Background and Font Color is clicked' has been fixed.
## ejSchedule

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejschedule-bug-fixes}

* \#178732 - Month view header will not disappear now, after scrolling the scroll bar in week view.
* \#179247 - The current expand/collapse state of the resource header will be maintained on every view navigation in horizontal resource grouping.
* \#177678 - Appointments are rendering correctly in month view, after drag and resize.
* \#178972 - An issue with cells getting misaligned in mobile mode while using timescale template has been fixed.
* \#176955 - Alert will be displayed while editing the series appointment(s), notifying the user that every related edited occurrence will also be affected.
* \#159321 - Recurrence rule of an appointment will be updated properly, while editing through custom window.
## ejSlider

### Bug Fixes	
{:#ejslider-bug-fixes}

* \#178296 – In Knockout, issue with two-way binding of value property for range Slider was resolved.


## ejTextBoxes

### Bug Fixes	
{:#ejtextboxes-bug-fixes}

* \#179573- When the Textbox value is in selection state, textbox will allow to enter the negative value.


## ejTooltip

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejtoolbar-bug-fixes}

* \#179600 - The issue "Positioning of Tooltip does not work correctly on Firefox" has been fixed.
## ejTreeGrid

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejtreegrid-bug-fixes}

* \#177199, #178403 – Issue with column resizer line not removed when resizing the columns has been fixed.
* \#178281- Now the default context menu will be displayed on mouse right click while the TreeGrid context menu is disabled. 
* Now the cell text can be selected while the cell is in edit mode.






## ejUploadbox

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejuploadbox-bug-fixes}

* \#179932- The issue "UploadBox dialog style disappear when cssClass property used" has been rectified.
* \#178781- The issue "upload dialog does not appear when drag and drop property in upload box is enabled" has been rectified.
## Predictive Analytics

### Bug Fixes
{:#predictive-analytics-bug-fixes}

* \#178661- Resolved issues with data fields transformation in RuleSet Model Evaluator.
