---
title 		: Essential Studio for JavaScript 2018 volume 1 Release Notes
description : Essential Studio for JavaScript 2018 volume 1 Release Notes
platform 	: js
---

# Essential Studio for JavaScript Release Notes

{% include release-info.html date=site.releasedate.2018_vol_1 version=site.version.2018_vol_1 %} 



## Common

### Breaking Changes
{:#common-breaking-changes}

* We have grouped the common-images content properly in the downloaded themes of Theme Studio application.

### Features

{:#common-features}

* Essential JavaScript for Ionic components are upgraded to seamlessly support [Angular 5](https://blog.angular.io/version-5-0-0-of-angular-now-available-37e414935ced).
* Maintained the current theme name in the theme studio URL, for quick navigation.
* \#185187 - In Theme Studio download option, common-images content will be downloaded along with theme files.
* \#191134 - Added Radial Menu in the Theme Studio application.
* \#195395 - Provided theme compatibility support for EJ1 with EJ2.
* \#186780 - Provided custom format support for number.
* \#182308 - Redefined the German culture localization texts.

### Bug Fixes

{:#common-bug-fixes}

* EJ1 with EJ2 compatibility CSS issues has been fixed. (06-Mar-2018)

## ejAutocomplete

### Bug fixes
{:#ejautocomplete-bug-fixes}

* \#194921 – Issue with searchColumnIndices property has been fixed, when unobtrusive is enabled.
* \#194749 - Issue at select event if using selectValueByKey is fixed.
* \#194130 - Script error with Autocomplete on selection of dataSource having number is resolved.

### Breaking Changes
{:#ejautocomplete-breaking-changes}

* \#179095 - The DOM structure in Autocomplete visual mode has been changed from SPAN to DIV based on HTML5 validation standard.
## ejCalculate

### Bug Fixes

*	#194317 -  Formulas computation is now calculating properly based on the culture.

## ejChart

### Features
{:#ejchart-features}

* \#186483 – Support has been provided for smooth animation in column type series.
* \#183813, #182965 – Support has been provided for template in trackball feature.
* Support has been provided for label intersect actions such as `Trim`, `Wrap`, `MultipleRows`, and `Hide` in 3D axis.
* Support has been provided for `Spline`, `RangeColumn`, `Scatter` and `StackingArea` type series in polar and radar.

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejchart-bug-fixes}
* \#192226 - Now, data will be returned only for the selection enabled series in range [`selection`](https://help.syncfusion.com/api/js/ejchart#members:series-selectionsettings-enable).
* \#188357 - Now, scatter [`series`](https://help.syncfusion.com/api/js/ejchart#members:series) will render properly with `null` points.
* \#193509 - Now, [`data label`](https://help.syncfusion.com/api/js/ejchart#members:series-marker-datalabel) is rendering properly without collision.
* \#193235, 193488 - Now, chart [`series`](https://help.syncfusion.com/api/js/ejchart#members:series) is rendering properly with zero in 1st point.
* \#188776 - [`Edge label placement's`](https://help.syncfusion.com/api/js/ejchart#members:primaryxaxis-edgelabelplacement) `shift` is now working properly without colliding the axis labels.
* F133511 - Assigning the [`axis name`](https://help.syncfusion.com/api/js/ejchart#members:series-xaxisname) with whitespace to the series is now working properly.
* \#194711 - [`Offset`](https://help.syncfusion.com/api/js/ejchart#members:series-marker-datalabel-offset) property in dataLabel is now working properly for 3D chart.
* \#191062, 191974 - Now, chart is rendering properly on resize, without increasing the height.
* \#193840 - Now, chart is updating properly with new [`data source`](https://help.syncfusion.com/api/js/ejchart#members:series-datasource) through legend click.
* \#195541 - [`Crosshair`](https://help.syncfusion.com/api/js/ejchart#members:crosshair) tooltip is now working properly for bar type series.



## ejDataManager

### Features
{:#ejdatamanager-features}

* We can perform a data operation based on nested column data and bind to the data control. Here, if we want to perform the server side data operation for the nested dataSource like sorting, grouping, filtering, searching, take, or skip then we have to define the generic type of dataSource.

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejdatamanager-bug-fixes}

* \#191111 - Remove method in ODataV4 adaptor can handle string value properly now.
* \#196670 - Batch editing can now update using both client side data and the response from the server side for Grid remoteSave adaptor.	
* \#196333 - In removeSaveAdaptor data value is now updated, when the process response method is extended.

## ejDatePicker

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejdatepicker-bug-fixes}

* \#196608 – Performance issue has been fixed while rendering the DatePicker popup.
* \#195931 - Value (year in two digits) is not applied properly for DatePicker is in strict mode in IE browser issue is fixed.
* \#195978 - DatePicker forcing tabindex to 0 is fixed.
## ejDateRangePicker

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejdaterangepicker-bug-fixes}

* \#136093 – Change event fires on clicking cancel button in DateRangePicker is fixed and refreshed on 3rd March 2018.
## ejDateTimePicker

### Bug fixes
{:#ejdatetimepicker-bug-fixes}

* \#194945 – Value becomes null on “de-DE” culture if DateTimePicker is in strict mode issue has been fixed. 
## ejDiagram

### Features
{:#ejdiagram-features}

* \#139463, \#129695 - Layering support for diagram control is added.

### Bug fixes
{:#ejdiagram-bug-fixes}

* \#191382, #194846 - Unable to establish the connection when mouse hovering on port is fixed.
* \#191504 - Need to prevent `historyManager` property on serialization is fixed.
* \#191751 - `BPMNSubProcess` shape borderWidth now updating properly at runtime.
* \#191926 - Unable to connect BPMN shapes by using straight line connector is fixed.
* \#193129 - `BPMNShape` service task don't have proper icon is fixed.
* \#193342 - While resizing the group container which is positioned inside the container node, the parent container size not updating properly is fixed.
* \#134803 - The `elementType` argument in click event returns incorrect value while `PageEditable` constraints gets disabled is fixed.
* \#191602 - `HTMLNode` is not exported properly in IE browser is fixed.
* \#194397 - Unable to delete the node using delete key in MAC System is fixed.
* \#194717,\#153251 - Label alignment is not proper when rendering the label in SVG mode is fixed.
* \#194717 - While rendering the multiple symbol palette, palette items always added in first palette is fixed.
* \#194997 - Alignment is not proper for multiple parent layout when node having different size is fixed.
* \#196033 - Exception raised on connector dragging after performing save and load is fixed. 
* \#135406 - Alignment is not proper in the layout when layout having multiple root node and having different size for each node is fixed.
* \#195429 - Label dragging is not working for connector after performing save and load is fixed.
## ejDialog

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejdialog-bug-fixes}

* \#193323 – Issue with triggering `beforeClose` event twice in a tablet device has been fixed.

## ejDraggable

### Bug Fixes

{:#ejDraggable-bug-fixes}

* \#193330,#195419 - Drag and Drop function now Works fine in MAC.
* \#189269 - ejDraggable now allows the checkbox to edit.
* \#195813,#197093 - Flickering no longer occurs in IE11 browser, when drag event is used inside iframe
* \#199613 - Drag event now works correctly in touch devices without any console errors.
## ejDropDownList

### Features

{:#ejdropdownlist-features}

* The initial rendering of DropDownList control takes more time because of the popup list being loaded at that time. Now we have rendered the popup dynamically instead of the initial load and thus increasing the performance of the control. We have provided support for new property "loadOnDemand".

### Bug Fixes

{:#ejdropdownlist-bug-fixes}

* \#190426 - The Error "args.split is not a function" is no longer thrown in _addValue method, when itemsCount is enabled and integer value is passed in Angular.
* \#189594 - Now additional optional parameter for casing can be added in selectItemByText method.
* \#195999 - DataSource is now updated properly, when it is changed dynamically through setModel.
* \#195254 - Items with empty string value can be selected now.
* \#196231 - The searched word can be selected now, when enter key is pressed in DropDownList.
## ejDropDownTree

The DropDownTree control is a combination of a DropDownList control and a TreeView control. Once a node is selected from a tree, a single item’s text, or the text of multiple items, is displayed in the input field.

### Features
{:#ejdropdowntree-features}

* Support for various client-side and remote data sources such as JSON, RESTful services, OData services, WCF services, and much more. 
* Use the keyboard for any action, including opening and closing the drop-down tree; navigating, expanding, and collapsing nodes of the drop-down tree; and more.
* Customize the drop-down tree header, footer, and nodes to best suit the control’s appearance for a specific scenario.
* Display the text of a selected node alone or with a full path to the categories the node belongs to.
* Quickly find items as soon as characters are typed.

## ejFileExplorer

### Features
{:#ejfileexplorer-features}

* \#196325 - Provided virtual scrolling support for loading files and folders on demand in order to improve performance.
* \#191114 - Provided API to customize the upload settings of FileExplorer component.

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejfileexplorer-bug-fixes}

* \#195876 - In FileExplorer, date modified field is being sorted properly at now.
## ejGantt

### Features
{:#ejgantt-features}

* \#188603 – Now it is possible to draw the dependency lines using mouse actions with auto scroll support.
* \#189892, #194607 – The Gantt control now provides support for rounding off the duration when the taskbar is dropped after editing in the middle of the timescale unit.
* \#183278, #195145, #195146 – It is now possible to delete the dependency lines in Gantt using dependency delete dialog.
* \#190226 – The Gantt control now provides support for the tasks which passes through in daylight saving time of a given time zone.
* \#192469 - Now it is possible to prevent the specific editing operations in taskbar resize, taskbar dragging and predecessor draw actions using `taskbarEditing` event.


### Bug Fixes
{:#ejgantt-bug-fixes}
* \#194609 – Issue with updating the datasource with datamanager dynamically using `setModel` method has been fixed
* \#195243 – Now it is possible to restrict the dependency line draw action to a specific dependency type.
* \#195961 – Issue with exporting data with invalid parent ID has been fixed.
* \#195961 – Issue with exporting the Gantt data with baseline start date and baseline end date value as empty string has been fixed
* \#195961 – Issue while exporting record without hierarchy in self-referential datasource has been fixed
* \#196387 – Issue with generating the serial number while updating the datasource using setModel has been fixed.
* \#191970 - Custom column fields value update issue in `updateRecordByTaskId` method has been fixed.


## ejGrid

### Features
{:#ejGrid-features}

*  \#192255 - Provided support for checkbox selection with `frozenColumns`.
*  \#188664 - Provided support to select cells using mouse dragging.


### Bug Fixes
{:#ejGrid-bug-fixes}

*  \#193131 - Grid touch scroll works fine.
*  \#195653 - Scrolling works fine when performing scrolling by clicking the scrollbar continuously.
*  \#194931 - The selected rows are maintained while performing editing with `enableVirtualization`.
*  \#192994 - Batch changes red icon would not appear when no changes are performed in an empty cell.
*  \#191169 - Grid displays fine when scrolling the horizontal scroller with `allowVirtualScrolling` as true.
*  \#180631, \#193156, \#186533, \#185176, \#185779 - After Collapse/Expand of Details Template the parent Scroller refreshes fine.
*  \#195002 - When `width` is provided for all columns with `frozenRows` and `frozenColumns` no extra white space appears in Grid.
## ejKanban

### Bug fixes
{:#ejkanban-bug-fixes}

*  \#193983 - Numeric text box formatting issue with other culture is fixed.
*  \#F135713 - Collapsible field mapping issue is fixed to accept user defined keys. 
## ejListBox

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejlistbox-bug-fixes}

* \#192932 – Performance issue is fixed while loading 100+ records in ListBox, when check box is enabled.
* \#133613 – Issue with drag and drop in the ListBox with virtual scrolling has been fixed.
* \#190906 – Issue on triggering change twice using the `selectedIndex` property has been fixed.
## ejListView

### Features
{:#ejlistview-features}

* \#191939 – The ListView control virtual scrolling support will work for Local dataSource.

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejlistview-bug-fixes}

* \#193220 – Template rendering issue with remote data is fixed.
* \#191939 – ListView control is rendered properly while enabling the virtual scrolling with object dataSource.

## ejMap

### Features
{:#ejmap-features}

* Provided right to left rendering support.
* Provided support for mapping the colors from data source for shapes.

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejmap-bug-fixes}

* \#191065 - Now, tooltip and border for multi-polygons are rendered properly.
* \#196160 - Now, mouse wheel zooming can be enabled or disabled.
## ejMaskEdit

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejmaskedit-bug-fixes}

* \#195344 - The issue on “KeyDown” event is not triggered in MaskEdit component has been fixed.
* \#135376, \#196363 - MaskEdit does not working properly in android device issue has been fixed.
* \#191735 - In form validation, validation related issues while changing the value in MaskEdit component has been fixed.
* \#197987 - While using ‘&’ mask with ‘showPromptChar’ as false, issue in showing prompt character in MaskEdit component has been fixed.
## ejMenu

### Bug Fixes

{:#ejmenu-bug-fixes}

* \#190867,#195424 - Context menu will now be positioned correctly, even when right click action is performed at the bottom of target element.
## ejNavigationDrawer

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejnavigationdrawer-bug-fixes}

* \#194964 – Issue with cancelling `beforeClose` event using `args.cancel` has been resolved.

## ejPdfViewer

### Features
{:#ejPdfViewer-features}

* \#190927 - Provided support for tracking download status on the client side of the PDF viewer control.
* \#189014 - Exposed APIs for performing text search operations.


### Bug Fixes
{:#ejPdfViewer-bug-fixes}

* \#190571 - Color of the pages in the provided PDF document will not be inverted anymore when the PDF viewer control is rendered in MS edge browser.
* \#193166 - PDF document form fields are not misplaced anymore in the PDF viewer control.
* \#191487 - Form fields data are now maintained after adding the signature certificate to the PDF document.
* \#191396 - Previously added handwritten signatures are now rendered properly.
* \#186005 - Horizontal scrollbar does not appear anymore when in fit-to-page modes.
* \#189182 - Scrolling will work properly if the page is set as ‘fit to page’ mode when the container height is set to 500px.
* \#194814, \#195481 - The properties of the text markup annotation will be preserved properly in the ejPdfViewer control.
* \#193930, \#194715 - PDF document contents are now rendered properly in the PDF viewer control.
* \#195382 - Script error will not be thrown while scrolling the PDF documents in PDF viewer control.
* \#195382 - Hand symbol will be shown now while hovering over hyperlink in MS edge browser.

## ejPivotClient

### Features	
{:#ejpivotclient-features}

*  \#193092 - Provided paging support for child members in member editor like in Microsoft Excel.
*   Provided complete control export option even when paging is enabled.
*   Provided value sorting support in pivot client for relational data sources.

## ejPivotGrid

### Bug fixes
{:#ejpivotgrid-bug-fixes}

*  \#196605 - `cellSelection` event works properly in pivot grid.
*  \#196602 - `cellDoubleClick` event works properly while performing expand/collapse operation.
*  \#196401 - Row grand total hides properly while enabling `columnFrozenHeader` property. 

## ejRangeNavigator

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejrangenavigator-bug-fixes}
 
* \#195746 - Now, the [`RangeChanged`](https://help.syncfusion.com/api/js/ejrangenavigator#events:rangechanged) event triggers properly when the sliders are placed at the end position.

## ejReportViewer

### Breaking changes

* The Syncfusion.RDL.Data.IDataExtension interface has been deprecated. Use Syncfusion.Reports.EJ.Data.IDataExtension instead.

### Features

* \#190938 – Provided the support to load the SSRS linked report in ReportViewer.

### Bug Fixes	
{:#ejreportviewer-bug-fixes}

* \#194334 - Now, break tag render properly for HTML content in ReportViewer.

* \#194175 - Resolved the drillthrough action event triggered twice when action specified for both text box report item and run text.

* \#192461 - Resolved the parameter block rendering issue for hidden parameter in parameter layout. 

* \#192505 - Now, the default parameter is loaded properly when value type set as null. 

* \#196322 - Now, the dependent multi-value parameter are loaded properly in ReportViewer. 

* \#194334 - Resolved the text box overlapping issue when paragraph text contain multiple new line feed.

* \#161847 - Now, "No Color" option specified for background color is working properly in Excel, PPT and Word export.

* \#195121 - Resolved the body background image style issue for Export files.

* \#199482 - SSRS shared dataset feature issue fixed for stored procedure and build refreshed on March 02,2018.

* \#199039 - Essential EJ2 style compatibility issue fixed and build refreshed on March 02,2018.
## ejRotator

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejrotator-bug-fixes}

* \#194964 – Issue with resizing Rotator proportionally with window has been fixed, when `isResponsive` is enabled.


## ejRTE

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejrte-bug-fixes}

* \#194230 - Images in RTE no longer collapse, when it is clicked in Firefox browser with jQuery 3.2.1.
* \#191502 - RichTextEditor's Iframe scroller will not navigate to the top automatically, after being dragged down.
* \#191503,#196170 - Locale text is now updated in the tooltip for more color option button and color picker buttons.
* \#196170 - Localization is enabled now for all the sub controls inside RTE.

## ejSchedule

### Features
{:#ejschedule-features}

* \#188294 - An improved method for adding/removing resources dynamically to and from the layout has been introduced.
* \#181299 - Support to link together the same appointment to multiple resources has been added, so that the CRUD action made on single appointment reflects on all other grouped ones.

### Breaking changes
{:#ejschedule-breaking-changes}

* \#189169 - Appointments are now made to drag on mobile mode, just by tap holding and then moving it anywhere instead of dragging it through single touch and move.

* \##192566, #194125 - Appointment resizes properly now, when field names are mapped with custom names.

### Bug fixes
{:#ejschedule-bug-fixes}

* \#193950 - Date value format in quick window is displaying correctly now as per the assigned culture.
* \#193678 - All-day appointments are displaying properly now, if its start and end time is less than control's start hour.
* \#193178 - Dates in Agenda view is navigating correctly, when `showWeekend` is set to false.
* \#192963 - Work hours are highlighted properly now, when different major slot values are given.
* \#184786 - Work-week days are rendering correctly now, when `firstDayOfWeek` property is set with specific value.
* \#190688, \#193577 - Block Appointments are rendering properly in IE browser now, with jQuery version 3.2.1.
* \#192337 - Appointments are rendering properly in month view, when template option is defined on appointments.
* \#191978 - Drag and drop of appointments is working properly now, with different major and minor slot values set to it.
* \#192494 - Delete event is made to raise now, after deleting one of the edited recurrence instance.
* \#191428, \#191636 - Appointments are displaying properly in Edge browser, on all views with `timeScale` option disabled.
* \#190617 - Accessibility enhancements on view and date navigation is done.
* \#190884 - Major and minor time slot values are displaying correctly now, while using different `timeScale` option.
* \#188880 - Resource color gets applied on appointments properly now, when no color value is defined for category option.
* \#195083 - `appointmentClick` event works properly now in mobile and tablet devices.
* \#194264 - An issue with empty space displaying at the bottom of the control has been fixed, while rendering more appointments on a single cell with cell auto-fit feature enabled.
* \#184895 - Blockout appointments are rendering properly now in month view.
* \#194515 - Resource details are retrieved correctly on context menu options, when `cellTemplate` option is used.
* \#193200 - `UNTIL` property of recurrence rule follows the date format as per the value of `dateFormat` API.
* \#194373 - A client-side method namely `getCurrentViewAppointments` is added to retrieve only the current view appointments.
* \#194191 - Blockout appointments are rendering correctly now, when `timeScale` option is enabled.
* \#194148 - Appointment time is updated properly now with different `timeScale` values.
* \#193632 - Misalignment issue with cells, while zooming the browser is prevented.
* \#194932 - `startHour` and `endHour` can now be set via set-model in horizontal orientation.
* \#197004 - Recurrence alert window will now open properly in CRUD samples, while editing the recurrence series.
* \#197095 - Duplication of all-day appointments that spans across multiple days is prevented.
* \#196762 - Schedule will work fine now, while using with jQuery.noConflict().
## ejScroller

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejscroller-bug-fixes}

* \#196020 – Content did not scroll on touch in Edge browser is fixed. 
* Scroller is working properly in RTL mode.

## ejSignature

### Features
{:#ejsignature-features}

* \#194912 – Provided the `refresh` method support for Signature.

## ejSparkline

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejsparkline-bug-fixes}
 
* \#197880 - Now, the Sparkline is rendering properly when value is specified only for [`yName`](https://help.syncfusion.com/api/js/ejsparkline#members:yname) property.

## ejSpreadsheet

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejspreadsheet-bug-fixes}

* \#194059 – Issue with cell selection while clicking the cell randomly is fixed.
* \#193897 – Issue with importing scatter chart is fixed.
* \#188455 – Issue with chart while loading stream into the Spreadsheet is fixed.
* \#192938 – Issue with exporting the chart and its data source in different sheets is fixed.
* \#191964 – Issue with hovering Y-Axis values in chart is fixed.
* \#190715 – Issue with chart when data range containing percentage values is fixed.
* \#190729 – Issue with undo redo, while copy paste the value in dropdownlist cell type is fixed.
* \#189594 – Issue with copy paste on dropdownlist cell type is fixed.
* \#133249 – Issue with chart series not rendered properly while importing is fixed.
* \#193591 – Issue with datepicker celltype values are not maintained while scrolling is fixed.
* \#193531 – Issue with show/hide formula bar while navigating the sheets is fixed.
* \#191848 – Issue with importing date values and text formatted formula values is fixed.
* \#191879 – Issue with importing formula having dependent cells from other sheets as argument is fixed.
* \#190487 – Issue with filtering checkbox option list on columns that contain formulas is fixed.
* \#189610 – Issue with exporting chart X-Axis values in the Spreadsheet is fixed.
* \#192938 – Issue with chart labels are overlapped in X-Axis is fixed.
* \#193867 – Issue with isReadOnly attribute causes the border to disappear is fixed.
* \#190729 – Improved performance for adding multiple dropdown list in Spreadsheet.
* \#190480 - Issue with exporting the imported excel that contains merged cells with border is fixed.
* \#196498 - Issue with chart title and label font size being changed while save and reload is fixed.
* \#196410 - Issue with chart with discontinuous range while using saveAsJSON() is fixed.
* \#196612 - Issue with checkbox cell type state is not maintained while scrolling is fixed.
* \#196640 - Issue with backgroundColor and fontWeight cell styles in typescript sample is fixed.
* \#196494 - Issue with resizing the column and chart element reorder is fixed.
* \#196842 - Issue with date format cells in “hr-HR” culture is fixed.
* \#196410 - Issue with white space in Edge browser while vertical infinite scrolling is fixed.
* \#196187 - Issue with merged cells format has been removed while scrolling with freeze panes is fixed.
* \#196922 - Issue with format dialog fields not changed based on the selected cells is fixed.
* \#196842 - Issue with datepicker cell type doesn’t inherit the Spreadsheet localization is fixed.
* \#196490 - Issue with chart creation while enabling ribbon by using setModel after rendering Spreadsheet is fixed.
* \#196061 - Issue with changing contextmenu datasource with beforeOpen client-side event is fixed.
* \#196093 - Issue with updateRange method while setting startCell as right extreme column is fixed.
* \#194317 - Issue while exporting hidden merged cells with hidden cell range is fixed.
* \#195724 - Issue with number formatting text alignment while virtual scrolling is fixed.
* \#194594, 194594 - Issue with column width being changed while save and reload the Spreadsheet is fixed.
* \#195439 - Issue while editing the formula bar is fixed.
* \#195532 - Issue with formula bar misalignment while creating the chart in Office 365 theme is fixed.
* \#195497 - Issue while editing the percentage format applied cells is fixed.
* \#194273 - Issue with freeze panes, duplicate text content showing while scrolling with merged cells is fixed.
* \#194311 - Issue with format as table, which creates extra row while using AutoSum is fixed.
* \#194608 - Issue with saveAsJSON method returns the cleared merge cells in the response is fixed.
* \#194317, 196510 - Issue with row height increases with hidden range contained merged cells is fixed.
* \#194581 - Issue with actionComplete event is not triggered while applying gridlines, heading and freeze panes is fixed.
* \#194597 - Issue with row height, while applying format by using format hash code.
* \#194167 - Issue while copy and paste the cells types is fixed.
* \#196486 - Issue with update data range not updated while insert and delete operation is fixed.
* \#194597 - Provided public method for undo and redo operation.
* \#194097 - Provided public method to resize the format as table.
* \#193371 - Provided cancellation token support for the Spreadsheet.
* \#190294 – Provided show hide option support for context menu in Spreadsheet.
* \#190480 – Provided support to maintain the applied borders in merge cell on importing.
* \#190480 – Provided support for merge cells with cell formatting.
* \#191470 – Provided support for setting entire cells as locked cell option like Microsoft Excel.
* \#190480 – Provided support to apply borders on merged cells.
* \#189958, #193552 – Provided support to update formula reference values on deleting row.
* \#190754 – Provided method to clear all the sheets.
* \#189594 – Provided option to get a dropdown list value.


## ejTab

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejtab-bug-fixes}

* \#135520 - Console error is no longer thrown, when close button is clicked with enableTabScroll is set to true and width is set to 100%.
## ejTreeGrid

### Features
{:#ejtreegrid-features}

* \#190010 – The TreeGrid control now provides support for multiple row drag and drop.
* \#187394, #187893, #195133 – Now it is possible to reorder the rows using a public method.
* \#191767 – Now the event will be triggered for every parent node being expanded and collapsed, when clicking expand all/collapse all toolbar buttons.
* \#183380, #190127 – Now it is possible to render the TreeGrid control with height as ‘auto’.
* \#183839, #186712 -  The TreeGrid control now provides support for filtering the records either with or without hierarchy.

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejtreegrid-bug-fixes}

* \#192260 – Now in checkbox  selection, the `rowSelected` event will be triggered while performing check/uncheck action using keyboard space key.
* \#188711,#195721 – Console error will no longer occur when rendering TreeGrid with no data with text wrap enabled.
* \#194739 – Issue with navigating the editing disabled cell with Tab key command has been fixed.
* \#195271 – Issue with exporting TreeGrid with checkbox selection enabled has been fixed.


## ejTreeMap

### Features
{:#ejtreemap-features}

* Provided support for mapping the colors from data source for items.

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejtreemap-bug-fixes}

* \#163226, 192554 - Labels are displayed properly during drill-down.

## ejUploadbox

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejuploadbox-bug-fixes}

* \#191210 - Uploadbox dialog's custom positioning now works properly, when dragAndDrop is enabled.
