---
title: Essential Studio for JavaScript  2018 Volume 2 Service pack 1 Release Notes
description: Essential Studio for JavaScript  2018 Volume 2 Service pack 1 Release Notes
platform: js
documentation: ug
---

# Essential Studio for JavaScript Release Notes

{% include release-info.html date=site.releasedate.2018_vol_2_sp1  version="v16.2.0.46" %} 

<style>
#license {
    font-size: .88em!important;
margin-top: 1.5em;     margin-bottom: 1.5em;
    background-color: #def8ff;
    padding: 10px 17px 14px;
}
</style>

<div id="license">
Starting with version 16.2 (2018 Vol 2), you need to include a valid license key (either paid or trial key) within your applications. 
Please refer to this <a href="/common/essential-studio/licensing/license-key">help topic</a> for more information 
</div>





## Common

### Bug Fixes

{:#common-bug-fixes}

* \#207488 - Issue with iterating Array using 'for-in' while extend the Array prototype is fixed.
* \#208317 - Redefined the 'en-US' culture localization texts.
## ejAutocomplete

### Bug fixes
{:#ejautocomplete-bug-fixes}

* \#F137661 - Restricted triggering `change` event multiple times when click on the `showResetIcon`.


## ejCalculate

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejcalculate-bug-fixes}

*	\#209468 - The `IF` formula returns the calculated value properly when the criteria argument has `:` symbol.
*	\#207206 - The `Year` formula is now calculating the value properly in `IE11` browser.
## ejChart

### Bug fixes
{:#ejchart-bug-fixes}

* \#205762 - Now, chart will render properly, after binding to [`dataSource`](https://help.syncfusion.com/api/js/ejchart#members:series-datasource) with null value.
* \#207489 - [`axisLabelClick`](https://help.syncfusion.com/api/js/ejchart#events:axislabelclick) is now triggering when [`labelIntersectAction`](https://help.syncfusion.com/api/js/ejchart#members:primaryxaxis-labelintersectaction) is rotate45.
## ejDatePicker

### Features
{:#ejDatePicker-features}

*  \#208661 - The support for `setValue` method has been provided, which prevents the pop-up rendering while dynamically assigning the value to DatePicker.


## ejDateTimePicker

### Features
{:#ejDateTimePicker-bug-fixes}

*  \#205404 - DateTimePicker value can be given with or without client time zone by using `timeZone` property.
## ejDiagram

### Features
{:#ejdiagram-features}

* \#209242: Gradient support for node's border color is added.

### Bug fixes
{:#ejdiagram-bug-fixes}

* \#200014: Connector's docking is not proper with BPMN shapes after performing save and load functionality is fixed.
* \#205079: Node positions are not retained in serialization when changing the position after executing the layout functionality.
* \#F137613: Node's label position is not updated properly in overview when interacting with the node in the diagram is fixed.
* \#206449: Diagram gets shrink when executing the `print` method is fixed.
* \#200014: Not able to create connection from BPMNSubProcess's event after performing save and load functionality is fixed.
* \#F138007: Exception raised when serializationSetting's `preventDefaultValues` set to true and loading the diagram twice is fixed.
* \#208346: Exception raised when loading the diagram and model's selectedItems set to null is fixed.
* \#210260: ConnectTool does not activate when the port's shape set to `path` is fixed.
* \#206476: Not able to see all the elements in the diagram. Scrollbar is not updated to the bottom most position of the diagram is fixed.

## ejDialog

### Bug fixes
{:#ejdialog-bug-fixes}

* \#210104 - Resolved the issue with generating CSS file using LESS compiler.
* \#208104 - Resolved the issue with content height issue which occurs after resizing the window in Dialog.


## ejFileExplorer

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejfileexplorer-bug-fixes}

* \#209781 – Provided support to sort different date formats in FileExplorer component.

* \#210162 – Issue in showing waiting popup while using large files in the FileExplorer component has been fixed.
## ejGantt

### Features
{:#ejgantt-features}

* \#208330 - Now it is possible to use EJ2 context menu and EJ1 Gantt components in the same page without any issues.
* \#206384 - In Gantt dialog, UI of resource tab and predecessor tab has been optimized to improve user experience.
* \#205709 - Now it is possible to update the date value of the task which has task dependencies, using `updateRecordByTaskId` method.

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejgantt-bug-fixes}
* \#208134 - Issue with custom fields in edit dialog of resource view in Gantt has been fixed.
* \#F138054 - Now it is possible to update the header format of the hour timescale dynamically without any issues.
* \#207114 - Issue in custom dropdown control in Gantt edit dialog with dropdown data as integer value has been fixed.
* \#206486, F137757 - Issue in exporting parent task with a milestone as child item has been fixed.


## ejGrid


### Features
{:#ejGrid-features}

*  \#204598, 191227 - `filterOperator` property has been included in columns API  to filter the columns in filterbar mode based on respective filter operator .
*  \#204557 - `refreshData` method is included in Grid API to refresh the grid content with updated server data using XMLHttpRequest when `remoteSaveAdaptor` is used.


### Bug Fixes
{:#ejGrid-bug-fixes}

*  \#204184 - `getSelectedRecords` method returns correct values after virtual scroll request. 
*  \#205487 - Font family is applied correctly in iOS when `isResponsive` is enabled.
*  \#207531 - Filtering of Date Time Column using menu filter is working properly when type is given as datetime.
*  \#208221 - Column resizing cursor is displayed, when `allowFiltering` is false. 
*  \#208629 - Filtering works fine when `filterColumn` method is called after `clearFiltering` method.
*  \#208630 - Filter Bar is not misaligned when browser is resized in responsive mode.
*  \#206926 - Performing initial sorting with same field name does not throw any script error.
*  \#207488 - jQuery bootGrid reference works fine with Grid.
*  \#209015 - Deleting multiple rows is working fine when `selectionType` is set as multiple through set model. 
*  \#208340, 210613 - Selecting a non-existing record does not throw any script error when `enablePersistence` is true.
*  \#209229 - Caption Summary value is calculated correctly at initial rendering.
*  \#209249 - Decimal key is working fine in menu filter text box, when column is configured to show zero decimals.
*  \#205101 - Saving records when `showAddNewRow` is enabled does not throw any script error.
*  \#208631 - Filter Bar status is updated when filtering is performed using `filterColumn` method.
*  \#209889 - Menu Filter dialog elements are not misaligned when material theme is applied.
## ejKanban

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejkanban-bug-fixes}

* \#208657 - The issue with adding new data to an empty data source and enabled context menu has been resolved.
## ejListBox

### Bug fixes
{:#ejlistbox-bug-fixes}

* \#F138083 - Resolved the page scrolling issue which occurs on adding new items to listbox using `addItem` public method.
## ejMap

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejmap-bug-fixes}

* \#208865 - Sublayer in the OpenStreetMap is now being zoomed properly.
## ejPager

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejPager-bug-fixes}

*  \#209496 - The page size drop-down list expands and allows to select values on setting `pageSizeList` property. 


## ejPdfViewer

### Features
{:#ejPdfViewer-features}

* \#204928, \#166056, \#162399, \#178537, \#194227, \#196818, \#197343, \#198839, \#202013 - The CCITTFax decoder filter images are rendered properly in Google Chrome and Firefox browser using the PDF viewer control.


### Bug Fixes
{:#ejPdfViewer-bug-fixes}

* \#207860 - No exception will be thrown while exporting the PDF document as images.
* \#206571, \#207989 - Contents of the PDF document are now rendered properly in PDF viewer.
* \#206569 - Text contents of the PDF document are now rendered properly in PDF viewer.
* \#208837 - Table borders are now rendered properly in PDF viewer.
* \#204717 - The question mark content is now rendered properly in PDF viewer.
* \#206825 - Now, the extracted image color is same as the original image color.
* \#207455 - Position of the check boxes and the radio buttons are now preserved properly in Internet Explorer (IE).
* \#204631 - Text contents of the PDF document are now rendered properly in the PDF viewer control.
* \#206267, \#208585 - Downloaded file size is now same as the size of the original document.
* \#203897 - Now, the application does not hang while loading the provided PDF document in the PDF viewer control.


## ejPivotChart

### Features
{:#ejpivotchart-features}

*  \#202918 - The widget can now be exported with specified height and width to the applicable document formats.

## ejPivotClient

### Features
{:#ejpivotclient-features}

*  \#203556 – Provided caption option for the members inside member editor dialog.

### Bug fixes
{:#ejpivotclient-bug-fixes}

*  \#207191 - Calculated member and measure can be created with name containing apostrophe.
*  \#209265 - Custom name to the service method `drillThroughDataTable` is work properly now.
## ejPivotGrid

### Features
{:#ejpivotgrid-features}

*  \#206533 - Zero can be displayed instead of empty cells in pivot grid.

### Bug fixes
{:#ejpivotgrid-bug-fixes}

*  \#208317 - Verbal issues in localized texts are cleared.
*  \#208191 - Rendering performance improved when pivot grid control in loaded in Internet Explorer.
## ejReportViewer

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejreportviewer-bug-fixes}

* \#198150 - Now, child parameter values are updated properly when multi-valued parent parameter is changed.
* \#210648 - Incorrect resource text of reportviewer toolbar elements has been replaced with correct contents for Pt-BR culture.
* \#206918 - Rendering problem in PDF export when data region report item used inside rectangle has been resolved.
* \#204628 - The exception in PDF export when textbox report item contains HTML content has been resolved.

## ejRTE

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejrte-bug-fixes}

* \#206465 - Table height is now set properly in edit table dialog.
## ejSchedule


### Bug Fixes
{:#ejSchedule-bug-fixes}

*  \#205362 - Appointments are now rendering properly on the exact resource rows, while dragging and dropping it on the scheduler loaded with more number of resources.
*  \#205720 - An issue with quick drag and drop of appointments across the time range is fixed now. 
*  \#205720 - An issue with drag and drop of appointments that spans across two months has been fixed.
*  \#205720 - An issue while deleting recurrence appointment, on calling the `refreshAppointments` public method has been fixed.
*  \#205804 - An issue with accessing quick popup window on schedule click has been fixed.
*  \#208317 - The localized text, spelling and other grammatical errors of scheduler text has been corrected.
*  \#209440 - An issue with wrong drag and drop behavior of appointments, when it is partially hidden behind the scheduler view port edges has been fixed.


## ejSpreadsheet

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejspreadsheet-bug-fixes}

* \#210163 - Issue with scrolling by keyboard navigation in switched sheets is fixed.
* \#208485 - Issue with RangeSettings is not updated while updating the datasource using updateRange() method is fixed.
* \#203073, 209468 - Issue with formula update on short date, long date and general type in 'es-ES' culture is fixed.
* \#208579 - Issue with binding sheet columns property on initial rendering is fixed.
* \#207723 - Issue with horizontal scrollbar not moving left, while pressing left key after applying freeze top row is fixed.
* \#207039 - Issue with blank rows created while scrolling and resizing the Spreadsheet to maximum height is fixed.
* \#205304 - Issue in format applied formula cell not aligned properly and bad number formatting exception with format string {0:0.0000 €c} for zero value is fixed. 
* \#207162 - Provided support for summary type (Count, Min, Max and Product) in pivot table.
* \#197620 - Provided support for handling unknown formula in excel file on importing.
* \#204530 - Provided support for formula cell reference update used with conditional operators in autofill.
* \#204532 - Provided support for insert and delete in cell types.
## ejTab

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejtab-bug-fixes}

* \#208638 - Tab header no longer flickers when hovered upon the tab scroll icon after closing a tab item.
## ejTimePicker

### Features
{:#ejTimePicker-features}

*  \#208661 - The support for `setValue` method has been provided, which prevents the pop-up rendering while dynamically assigning the value to TimePicker.

## ejTreeGrid

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejtreegrid-bug-fixes}

* \#205681 - Issue in updating data source with total summary rows has been fixed.
## ejTreeView

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejtreeview-bug-fixes}

* \#209252 -  The issue in selecting TreeView nodes in the TreeView template has been fixed.
## ejWaitingPopup

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejwaitingpopup-bug-fixes}

* \#210162 - Element rendered as waiting popup now requires ID attribute.
