---
title: Essential Studio for JavaScript  2018 Vol 4 Beta Release Notes  
description: Essential Studio for JavaScript  2018 Vol 4 Beta Release Notes  
platform: js
documentation: ug
---

# Essential Studio for JavaScript  Release Notes (Beta) 

{% include release-info.html date=site.releasedate.2018_vol_4_beta  version="v16.4.0.40" %} 

<style>
#license {
    font-size: .88em!important;
margin-top: 1.5em;     margin-bottom: 1.5em;
    background-color: #def8ff;
    padding: 10px 17px 14px;
}
</style>

<div id="license">
Starting with version 16.2 (2018 Vol 2), you need to include a valid license key (either paid or trial key) within your applications. 
Please refer to this <a href="/common/essential-studio/licensing/license-key">help topic</a> for more information 
</div>

<div id="license">
Starting with version 16.4 (2018 Vol 4), Syncfusion has removed .NET Framework 3.5 and 4.5.1 assemblies from JavaScript install. These assemblies are provided in a separate add on install. 
Please refer to this <a href="/common/essential-studio/installation/essential-studio-platform-framework-add-ons">help topic</a> for more information.
</div>




## ejAutocomplete

### Bug fixes
{:#ejautocomplete-bug-fixes}

* \#217179 – Script error is resolved when dynamically set `value` property as `null`.
* \#216476 – Script error is resolved when `focusOut` action is performed on autocomplete.
* \#212623, #217350, #215336 - Provided high priority for `selectValueByKey` property when `value` property set on autocomplete.
## ejCalculate
 
### Bug fixes
{:#ejcalculate-bug-fixes}

*	\#219504 – The decimal values are parsed properly based on the current culture in formula calculation.
*	\#218656 – The `INDEX` formula is computed properly when using argument as array value.
*	\#213658 – The nested formulas with complex formats are parsed and calculated properly in formula computation.
*	\#217746 – The formulas with named ranges are calculated properly when the name contains space or special characters.

## ejChart

### Features
{:#ejchart-features}

* Support has been added for spline range area series.

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejChart-bug-fixes}

* \#218746,220317, 140568 - Now, the line series is working properly in Google Chrome.
* \#220686 - `Striplines` work properly with zoom in and zoom out features.
* \#220294 - Chart works properly with null values in data.
* \#218688 - `Crosshair` tooltip works properly in canvas mode.
## ejDataManager

### Features

{:#ejdatamanager-features}

* \#137504,217407 - Support for ignoreAccent in EJ1 to filter diacritics using query.

### Bug Fixes	
{:#ejdatamanager-bug-fixes}

* \#215781, \#139731 - The date without time will be working fine in PHP server.
## ejDatePicker

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejdatepicker-bug-fixes}

* \#219276 - When enableStrictMode is enabled, entering six digit integers without separators will no longer throw an error.

## ejDiagram

### Bug fixes
{:#ejdiagram-bug-fixes}

* \#F139687 - Now able to modify the swimlane's phase offset at run time.
* \#214386 - Connector's route now updated properly in swimlane diagram when line routing feature is enabled.
* \#216704 - Drag and drop functionality is now working properly when rendering the diagram in quirk mode.
* \#217771 - Port dragging is now working properly when adding the new ports to the node at runtime.
* \#215897 - When customizing the ruler interval and dragging the node, the node now snaps properly with nearest gridline.
* \#215951 - Now able to resize the BPMN DataObject node.
* \#217722 - Improved the performance of diagram control when drag and drop the symbols from symbol palette to diagram in Edge browser.
* \#220065 - Connector no longer created as `orthogonal` segment if segment's type set as `straight` and executing the layout with multiple parents.
* \#219696 - `undoStack` and `redoStack` list now updated properly when group the multiple action performed in the diagram and performing undo/redo functionality.
* \#221092 - Diagram's `backgroundColor` is now updated properly when zooming or panning the diagram control.
## ejDialog

### Bug fixes
{:#ejdialog-bug-fixes}

* \#F140492 – Dialog content hiding issue resolved when maximize the dialog. 
* \#214829 – Dialog vertical scroll bar issue is resolved when resizing the browser window.

## ejDraggable

### Features

{:#ejdraggable-features}

* \#215184 - Draggable plugin now supports auto scrolling while drag and drop through [autoScroll](https://help.syncfusion.com/api/js/ejdraggable#members:autoscroll) property. Option to set scroll speed and sensitivity during scrolling through [scrollSpeed](https://help.syncfusion.com/api/js/ejdraggable#members:scrollspeed) and [scrollSensitivity](https://help.syncfusion.com/api/js/ejdraggable#members:scrollsensitivity) properties.


### Bug Fixes	
{:#ejdraggable-bug-fixes}

* \#209440 - Issue with dragging position not calculated properly when Partially hidden element has been fixed.
## ejDropDownList

### Bug Fixes	
{:#ejdropdownlist-bug-fixes}

* \##217534 - Value is removed from input while changing and updating the same dataSource issue has been fixed.
* \#217429 - Checkbox selection is not working fine with angular sample using $scope issue has been fixed.
* \#215784 - Console error is thrown when DropDownList with treeview has integer data issue has been fixed.
* \#215952 - Grouping is not added properly in the popup when load-on demand is enabled issue has been fixed.
* \#215519 - Highlighted element is not selected in Dropdownlist when using keyboard navigation issue has been fixed.
* \#214223 - HtmlAttributes property adds name attribute to wrong element issue has been fixed.
* \#214670 - DropDownList items is not selected when checked and unchecked in the filtered list issue has been fixed.
## ejGantt

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejgantt-bug-fixes}

* \#219127 - Issue in PDF export while giving task id value as zero has been fixed
* \#213487 - Issue in updating custom column values with updateRecordByTaskId method has been fixed
* Issue with taskbar tool tip position when tool tip has more content has been fixed.
## ejGrid


### Bug Fixes
{:#ejGrid-bug-fixes}

*  \#220097,220453  - Virtual scrolling works fine while using mouse wheel.
*  \#217860 - Destroy all html elements properly when using `destroy` method.
*  \#220030 - Navigating rows through arrow keys works fine when `allowRowDragAndDrop`enabled.
*  \#218688 - Grid works fine when we enable Frozen column and allowResizeToFit on empty Grid.
## ejKanban

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejkanban-bug-fixes}

* \#217577 – Issue with the combination of `allowToggleColumn` and card dropping is resolved when column has no cards in it. 
* \#217794 – Script error is resolved when set the `dataSource` value as `null`.
## ejListBox

### Bug fixes
{:#ejlistbox-bug-fixes}

* \#216490 – `Change` event triggering issue resolved when clicking the first and the second listbox element.
* \#220191 - Checkbox status are updating properly while updating datasource dynamically.
## ejListView

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejlistview-bug-fixes}

* \#F140302, F140304, 217417 – Issue resolved with listview template rendering.

## ejMap

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejmap-bug-fixes}

*  \#217516 - Now, the unwanted text will not be added to OSM type layer.
## ejMaskEdit

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejmaskedit-bug-fixes}

* \#197921 - Resolved issues in complex mask with value combinations.
## ejPdfViewer

### Features
{:#ejPdfViewer-features}

* \#207463, \#211760, \#218071 - Provided support for Pdfium rendering engine in the PdfViewerControl.
* \#218780, \#218439 - Provided support for ExtractText functionality in the PdfViewerControl.
* \#215119, \#219284, \#220256 - Provided support for ExportAsImage functionality in the PdfViewerControl.
* \#215410 - Exposed an API updateViewerSize to resize the PdfViewerControl.
* \#212436 - Exposed an event ajaxRequestSuccess to receive the JSON data on success of AJAX request.

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejPdfViewer-bug-fixes}

* \#215198 - Border of the text boxes are rendered properly in the PdfViewerControl.
* \#194821 - The text is now copied properly with Ctrl+C command in the PDF Viewer control.
* \#216641 - Exception is no longer occurred while running the PDF Viewer sample created using Sample creator.
* \#214279 - Error no longer occurs on using WAVE tool in the PdfViewerControl.
* \#213347 - Error no longer occurs while opening PDF documents downloaded from PDF Viewer in Adobe Reader.
* \#212698 - Content in the PDF document is now rendered properly in the printed output in PdfViewerControl.
* \#215333 - CPU usage is now reduced while clicking the text boxes in PDF Viewer in MS Edge.
* \#219081 - Combo box is now at the correct direction in the PdfViewerControl.
* \#201396, \#205247, \#205247- Now, the PDF document contents are not swapped while scrolling and downloading the PDF document in PdfViewerControl.

## PivotClient

### Features
{:#ejPivotClient-features}

* \#212894 – Provided support to render measure elements inside cube dimension browser either in default order or sorted order.
* \#215353 – Provided support to update pivot button details in slicer axis through filtered report bound in code behind.
## PivotGrid

### Bug fixes
{:#ejPivotGrid-bug-fixes}

* \#F140602 - Headers are updated properly in Pivot Grid when rendered directly through MDX query instead of report.
## ejReportDesigner `Preview`

### Features
{:#ejreportdesigner-features}

* \#205987,\#215254,\#218981 – Provided tablix report item support to display data in table or matrix format. It includes the following unique features:
    * Row and column grouping.
    * Total support for row and column groups.
    * Filter and sort expressions support for groups.
    * Cell customization support.
    * Cell merging support.
    * Support to insert report items such as text boxes, images, lines, and subreports in tablix cells.
    * Visual cues to indicate row and column groups.

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejreportdesigner-bug-fixes}

* \#216844 - Fixed the content overflow issue in summary row property of grid report items.
* \#218559 - Resolved the schema version issue to save the report with the respective schema version instead of 2010 XML namespace by default.
* \#216246 - Fixed the report preview failure when the text from the web designer contains hexadecimal or Unicode values.
## ejReportViewer

### Features

* \#216091, #211268 – Provided user defined custom attribute to render the trendline chart.
* \#217143 – Provided support to show the tooltip for chart series.
* \#217103 – Provided `AjaxBeforeLoad` event for report viewer in ASP.NET Web Forms.
* \#218488 - Provided support to hide specific chart legend using an expression.
* \#F130662 - Provided support to use referred assembly method directly in an expression.
* \#186305,#F132567,#212724 - Provided support to render `DateTime` parameter values based on the client and server language culture.
* \#216948 - Provided support to load data source connection string based on the report parameter value.

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejreportviewer-bug-fixes}

* \#218751 - The slash appending problem for User ID built-in collection while previewing the report with empty domain value has been resolved.
* \#220361 - Now, foreground hexadecimal color code value is applied properly in the Report Viewer when it is set through HTML markup text.
* \#F140611 - Problem in updating the report margin value in print preview has been resolved.
* \#214304 - Drillthrough hyperlink action with Javascript methods will be navigated to proper page in the Report Viewer.
* \#219807 - Now, `DateSerial` function returns proper value if `AddMonth` or `AddDays` method is used in expression.
* \#218850 - Problem in displaying the chart legend for list of chart report item inside the subreport has been resolved.
* \#216656 - Now, Thai culture text will be displayed properly when using external Garamond font in PDF export.
* \#216800, #217998 - Problem in collapse toggle functionality for child report items in Excel export has been resolved.
* \#212724 - Now, drillthrough-date-time parameter values have been updated properly in the subreport.
* \#204379 - Problem in displaying the value in chart axis when the date format is applied has been resolved.
* \#218557 – The blank page rendering issue when using the nested tablix with span cells has been resolved.
* \#216640 – Now, Lookup, LookupSet, MultiLookup miscellaneous functions return correct values when different scopes are used in single expression.
* \#215937 – NRE in the chart report item when it contains legend title has been resolved.
* \#213670 – Now, the external font is applied properly in the chrome browser when font contains spacing character.
* \#215645 – Now, the export and fit to page toolbar options are updated properly based on focus.
* \#215524 – The parameter block visibility problem in the print layout when the view report action is triggered has been resolved.

## ejRTE

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejrte-bug-fixes}

* \#221308 - Table Resize is not working properly when inserted through html issue has been fixed.
* \#221120 - Table Resize is not working properly while using right icon issue has been fixed.
* \#219822 - Change event is not triggered for insertHtml executeCommand issue has been fixed.
* \#217796 -  RTE rendered without toolbar and console error thrown in iPod issue has been fixed.
* \#215126 -  Implemented rule to remove the Break tags inside table tr tags in XmlConversion class.
* \#212831 - Alignment does not work in empty RTE issue has been fixed.
* \#221308 - RTE Undo/Redo not working properly issue has been fixed.

## ejSchedule

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejschedule-bug-fixes}

* \#220966 - An issue while using `BYSETPOS` option in recurrence rule has been fixed.
* \#220073 - Drag and drop is now working properly, when any of the resource is maintained in collapsed state.
* \#220073 - Appointments can be created properly with no script errors now, when `enableLoadOnDemand` property is set to true.
* \#219100 - Prevented the duplicate rendering of dates in the header bar of custom view.
* \#218753 - An issue with scroller positioning in the horizontal orientation of the Scheduler, when `startHour` and `workHour` is set to same has been fixed.
* \#212501 - End time of the appointment has been updated properly in the clone element of the dragged appointment. 
* \#209440 - An appointment which is partially hidden on the left side of the Scheduler can be drag and dropped properly now.
* \#212501 - An issue with appointment dragging on more than two days, when `startHour` and `endHour` were set on the scheduler has been fixed.
* \#140117 - An issue with incorrect display of major slot values, while using `majorSlotTemplateId` has been fixed.
* \#214131 - An issue with rendering scheduler, while setting `false` to the properties `showWeekend` and `showNextPrevMonth` has been fixed now.
* \#209440 - The original appointment object collection is now additionally passed as argument in `dragStop` event.
* \#213963 - Auto-scrolling is now enabled for multiple cell selection done through the mouse.
* \#125939 - Public method `showAppointmentWindow` has been introduced to open the appointment window manually.
* \#140121 - Misalignment issue while rendering the scheduler with block appointments in horizontal orientation has been fixed.
## ejSlider

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejslider-bug-fixes}

* \#220450 – In Slider component, "the change event argument value is not updated properly" issue has been resolved.
## ejSpellCheck

### Features

{:#ejspellcheck-features}

* \#218184 - Support for sending request as 'POST’ or 'GET' through [ajaxRequestType](https://help.syncfusion.com/api/js/ejspellcheck#members:ajaxRequestType) property.

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejspellcheck-bug-fixes}

* \#218184 - Issue in spell check "POST" request type not working for add to dictionary and custom get suggestion has been fixed.
* \#218184,#218988 - Issue in spell check context menu shown wrong position using iframe has been fixed.

## ejSplitter

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejsplitter-bug-fixes}

* \#F140525 – Splitter last pane hiding issue resolved when window resized.
* \#219589 - Splitter width issue is resolved when pane size is resized.
## ejTab

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejtab-bug-fixes}

* \#220441 - Tab scroll is not working properly when add the tab item dynamically issue has been fixed.
* \#140407- "heightAdjustMode" api not working for newly added tab items issue has been fixed.
## ejTreeGrid

### Features
{:#ejtreegrid-features}

* \#217407 - Provided diacritics character support in TreeGrid filtering.

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejtreegrid-bug-fixes}

* \#219463 - Issue in exporting filtered data with filterOperators as Equal or NotEqual has been fixed
* \#217739 - Issue in updateRecordByIndex public method with batch editing has been fixed.
* \#216627 - Now it is possible to get the hidden column field value in actionComplete event arguments
* \#216853 - Issue in search text box with multiple tree grid in same page has been fixed.
* \#214546 - Issue in updating column width dynamically has been fixed


## ejTreeView

### Features
{:#ejtreeview-features}

* \#215184, #220976 - Provided auto scrolling support for drag and drop of the TreeView nodes.

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejtreeview-bug-fixes}

* \#220192 - In TreeView, "when performing keyboard interaction, the `focusin` and `focusout` events are triggered unnecessarily" issue has been resolved.
## ejUploadBox

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejuploadbox-bug-fixes}

* \#219185 - Issue with uploadbox cancel event not fired when click dialog close has been fixed.

