---
title: Essential Studio for JavaScript  2018 Volume 3 beta Release Notes (Beta)
description: Essential Studio for JavaScript  2018 Volume 3 beta Release Notes (Beta)
platform: js
documentation: ug
---

# Essential Studio for JavaScript Release Notes (Beta)

{% include release-info.html date=site.releasedate.2018_vol_3_beta  version="v16.3.0.17" %} 

<style>
#license {
    font-size: .88em!important;
margin-top: 1.5em;     margin-bottom: 1.5em;
    background-color: #def8ff;
    padding: 10px 17px 14px;
}
</style>

<div id="license">
Starting with version 16.2 (2018 Vol 2), you need to include a valid license key (either paid or trial key) within your applications. 
Please refer to this <a href="/common/essential-studio/licensing/license-key">help topic</a> for more information 
</div>





## Common

### Bug Fixes

{:#common-bug-fixes}

* \#207488 - Issue with iterating Array using 'for-in' while extend the Array prototype is fixed.
* \#208317 - Redefined the 'en-US' culture localization texts.
* \#211621 - Added `ComboBox` component in the Theme Studio application.
## ejAutocomplete

### Bug fixes
{:#ejautocomplete-bug-fixes}

* \#211227, \#F139302 - Issue with predicates in multicolumn search has been fixed.
* \#F137661 - Restricted triggering `change` event multiple times when click on the `showResetIcon`.
* \#212615, #210356 - Prevented unwanted post raises on autocomplete when the remote datasource is used.
## ejCalculate

### Features
{:#ejcalculate-features}

*	\#189112 - Provided support to add the named ranges with scope.

### Bug fixes
{:#ejcalculate-bug-fixes}

*	\#212264 - The `Round` formula is computed properly for decimal values with digit grouping symbol `(,)`.
## ejChart

### Bug fixes
{:#ejchart-bug-fixes}

* \#205762 - Now, chart will render properly, after binding to [`dataSource`](https://help.syncfusion.com/api/js/ejchart#members:series-datasource) with null value.
* \#207489 - [`axisLabelClick`](https://help.syncfusion.com/api/js/ejchart#events:axislabelclick) is now triggering when [`labelIntersectAction`](https://help.syncfusion.com/api/js/ejchart#members:primaryxaxis-labelintersectaction) is rotate45.
* \#210910 - Now, chart will render properly, after binding values to [`primaryYAxis`](https://help.syncfusion.com/api/js/ejchart#members:primaryyaxis) through set model.
* \#212513 - Passing y values as string to [`dataSource`](https://help.syncfusion.com/api/js/ejchart#members:series-datasource) is now working properly.
## ejComboBox 

### Bug Fixes	
{:#ejComboBox-bug-fixes}

* \#212045 - Value field in `getItemData` method now returns proper value when the value contains zero.
* \#f135840 - In unobtrusive mode, console error is no longer thrown when a value is selected.
## ejDataManager

### Bug Fixes	
{:#ejdatamanager-bug-fixes}

* \#214414 - Sorting is now prevented in dataManager when all the values of the field are null.
## ejDiagram

### Features
{:#ejdiagram-features}

* \#209242 - Gradient support for node border color is added.
* \#211102 - Support to avoid segment overlapping when executing the automatic tree layout with multiple parents is added.

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejdiagram-bug-fixes}

* \#200014 – Connector's docking position is now updated properly with BPMN shapes after performing save and load functionality.
* \#205079 - Node’s position is now retained in serialization when changing the position after executing the layout functionality.
* \#F137613 - Node's label position is now updated properly in overview when interacting with the node in the diagram.
* \#206449 - Diagram gets shrink when executing the `print` method is fixed.
* \#200014 - Now able to create connection from the BPMNSubProcess's event after performing save and load functionality.
* \#F138007 - An Exception issue has been resolved when serializationSetting's `preventDefaultValues` is set to true and loading the diagram twice.
* \#208346 - An Exception issue has been resolved when loading the diagram and the model's selectedItems is set to null.
* \#210260 - Connector drawing tool is now activated properly when the port's shape is set to `path`.
* \#206476 - Scroll bar is now updated to the bottom most position of the diagram and now able to see all the elements in the diagram.
* \#207275 - Tooltip is not visible when performing the interaction nodes within the lanes is fixed.
* \#208346 - The node's `borderColor` property is now updated properly for BPMN Events.
* \#209908 - The node's `minWidth` and `minHeight` properties of the values are set to 100 when dragging the nodes outside of swimlane and performing save and load operation twice is fixed.
* \#211413 - In Firefox browser, when exporting the diagram to an image, the label is now positioned properly.
* \#211415 - Now able to create the connection between BPMN shapes within the swimlane by using the connector tool.
* \#211447 - Connector's docking position is now updated properly when changing the BPMN task type and resizing the swimlane.
* \#187159 - Connector's decorator position is now updated properly when the line routing feature is enabled and the layout's spacing is set to odd numbers.
* \#212770 - Panning needs to be stopped after executing the `fitToPage` method is fixed.
* \#213632 - Undo/redo is now working properly for swimlane resizing functionality.


## ejDropDownList

### Bug Fixes	
{:#ejdropdownlist-bug-fixes}

* \##210844 - Value set using scope variable is now selected in multiselect visual mode with checkbox.
* \#211044 - - Console error is no longer thrown when drop down list is rendered with empty dataSource and loadOnDemand set to true.
## ejDropDownTree

### Bug Fixes	
{:#ejdropdowntree-bug-fixes}

* \#212199 - Drop down tree no longer overrides the FileExplorer's tree view subcomponent.
## ejFileExplorer

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejfileexplorer-bug-fixes}

* \#209781 – Provided support to sort different date formats in the file explorer component.
* \#210162 – Issue in showing waiting popup while using large files in the file explorer component has been fixed.
* \#211663 – After clicking, `no` option in the `replace confirmation` dialog of file explorer, this dialog is not opened again while uploading the same file, issue is fixed.
## ejGantt

### Features
{:#ejgantt-features}

* \#154668, \#188887 - The Gantt control now supports histogram view for resource allocation. User can track the resource allocation in the project using the resource histogram view.
* \#169548, \#194187, \#197377 - Now it is possible to display the unscheduled tasks in Gantt.
* \#208948, \#F138124 - Now it is possible to highlight the working time range and non-working time range in Gantt.
* \#206384 - In Gantt dialog, the resource tab and predecessor tab UI design has been optimized to improve user experience.
* \#205709 - Now it is possible to update the date value of the task which has task dependencies, using `updateRecordByTaskId` method.

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejgantt-bug-fixes}

* \#208330 - Now it is possible to use EJ2 context menu and EJ1 Gantt components in the same page without any issues.
* \#213487 - Issue in updating custom column values with `updateRecordByTaskId` method has been fixed.
* \#213037 - Alignment issue with Gantt timeline header has been fixed.
* \#208134 - Issue with custom fields in edit dialog of resource view in Gantt has been fixed.
* \#F138054 - Now it is possible to update the header format of the hour timescale dynamically without any issues.
* \#207114 - Issue in custom dropdown control in Gantt edit dialog with dropdown data as integer value has been fixed.
* \#206486, \#F137757 - Issue in exporting parent task with a milestone as child item has been fixed.
* \#212778 - Issue in PDF export with task dependencies and milestones enabled has been fixed.
* Issue in displaying tasks with duration value as `0` in resource view Gantt has been fixed.
## ejGrid


### Bug Fixes
{:#ejGrid-bug-fixes}

*  \#213111 - Frozen columns work fine when `allowResizeToFit` is enabled. 
*  \#213287 - Boolean column works fine for hierarchy grid with batch editing.
*  \#209249 - Decimal key works fine in custom filter textbox when a column is configured to show zero decimals.
*  \#207173 - OK button in Excel filter works fine when checkboxes are unchecked and checked after scrolling the checkbox list.
*  \#213251 - Grid works fine when one of the column names is defined as items.
## ejKanban

### Features
{:#ejkanban-features}

*	\#189927, \#177568, \#203750, \#207002, \#F129307, \#F134895 - Provided support to change the swimlane header's row text based on `swimlaneKey` value mapping in swimlane `headers` . Also, provided support for show/hide empty swimlane in the Kanban board.

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejkanban-bug-fixes}

* \#208657 - The issue with adding new data to an empty data source and enabled context menu has been resolved.
* \#F138877 - Issue with shrink header alignment at enableRTL mode has fixed.
## ejListBox

### Bug fixes
{:#ejlistbox-bug-fixes}

* \#210196 -  Issue with `getIndexByText` on getting item has fixed in `addItem` method.
## ejMap

### Features
{:#ejmap-features}

* Support has been provided to customize the data labels using properties.

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejmap-bug-fixes}

* \#208865 - Sublayer in the OpenStreetMap is now being zoomed properly.
## ejMaskEdit

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejmaskedit-bug-fixes}

* \#197921 - Issue with displaying '-' value in the '&' mask of the 'mask edit' has been fixed.

## ejPdfViewer

### Features
{:#ejPdfViewer-features}

* \#204928, \#166056, \#162399, \#178537, \#194227, \#196818, \#197343, \#198839, \#202013 - The CCITTFax decoder filter images are rendered properly in Google Chrome and Firefox browser using the PDF viewer control.
* \#211097 – Exposed an API to customize the location to save the temporary files.
* \#183772, \#197611 , \#203405- Improved the performance of scrolling and pinch zooming in PDF viewer control.


### Bug Fixes
{:#ejPdfViewer-bug-fixes}

* \#207860 - Exception will no longer be thrown while exporting the pages of PDF document as images..
* \#206571, \#207989 - Contents of the PDF document are now rendered properly in PDF viewer.
* \#206569 - Text contents of the PDF document are now rendered properly in PDF viewer.
* \#208837 - Table borders are now rendered properly in PDF viewer.
* \#204717 - The question mark content is now rendered properly in PDF viewer.
* \#206825 - Now, the extracted image color is same as the original image color.
* \#207455 - Position of the check boxes and the radio buttons are now preserved properly in Internet Explorer (IE).
* \#204631 - Text contents of the PDF document are now rendered properly in the PDF viewer control.
* \#206267, \#208585 - Downloaded file size is now same as the size of the original document.
* \#203897 - Now, the application does not hang while loading the provided PDF document in the PDF viewer control.
* \#208885 - Now, the position of the annotations and signatures are maintained properly in the downloaded document.
* \#205565, \#210823 - Text contents of the PDF document are now rendered properly in the PDF viewer control.
* \#211766 - Size of the form fields are now maintained properly in the PDF viewer control.
* \#209771 - The extra character is not added anymore in the extracted text.


## PivotClient

### Bug fixes
{:#ejPivotClient-bug-fixes}

* \#210966 - After enabling `memberEditorPaging` property and on performing filter operation, checked state is maintain properly.
* \#209265 - Passing custom name to service method `drillThroughDataTable` work properly.

## PivotGrid

### Features
{:#ejPivotGrid-features}

* \#194095 - Sorting support has been provided to order the members inside Member Editor.

## ejRangeNavigator

### Features
{:#ejrangenavigator-features}
 
* Support has been provided to hide the intersecting labels.
* Support has been provided to include or exclude the first day of the next month in the selected data.
## ejReportDesigner `Preview`

### Features
{:#ejreportdesigner-features}

* \#202004 - Provided an option to switch report's unit type. Now, users can switch the following unit types:
    * Inches
    * Centimeters
    * Pixels
    * Points
    * Millimeters
    * Picas

* Provided an option to enable/disable auto preview in query designer.

* Provided dataset parameter support. 

### Bug fixes
{:#ejreportdesigner-bug-fixes}

* \#206358 - Fixed the error that occurred when creating  dataset using stored procedure with temporary tables.

## ejReportViewer

### Features

* \#200906 - Provided support to render range bar chart type reports.
* \#203061 - Provided ParameterHelper to create custom parameter block in user application.

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejreportviewer-bug-fixes}

* \#138473 - The header report item overlapping to body content in print preview has been resolved.
* \#210506, 210688 - Now, multiple nested grouping toggle exports properly to Excel when the initial toggle state of a parent group is hidden.
* \#210669 - Resolved non html tag markup text rendering problem in reportviewer.
* \#198150 - Now, child parameter values are updated properly when multi-valued parent parameter is changed.
* \#210648 - Incorrect resource text of reportviewer toolbar elements has been replaced with correct contents for Pt-BR culture.
* \#206918 - Rendering problem in PDF export when data region report item is used inside a rectangle has been resolved.
* \#204628 - The exception in PDF export when textbox report item contains HTML content has been resolved.
* \#212581 - Resolved empty document generation when exporting report with chart report item.
* \#209336 - Now, interactive sorting icon renders properly with tablix header when text alignment is right.

## ejRTE

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejrte-bug-fixes}

* \#206465 - Table height is now set properly in edit table dialog.
* \#212831 - Alignment icons in RTE is now updated based on the content in IE browser.
* \#210668 - Inserted hyperlink no longer reverts the font family back to default font.
## ejSchedule

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejSchedule-bug-fixes}

*  \#211417 - Missing localized text of scheduler has been added for all the cultures.
*  \#213334 - Dropping of appointments on appropriate resources will work properly in horizontal orientation.
*  \#211460 - Error in immediate creation of a normal appointment after adding spanned appointment to the scheduler has been fixed.
*  \#211642 - Cell selection has been retained properly, when moving the cursor in and out of the scheduler layout. 
*  \#209625 - The issue occurred while editing single occurrence of a series multiple times has been fixed.
*  \#209440, \#212066 - An issue while dragging an appointment in the same cell has been fixed.
*  \#207851 - Duplication of appointments has been prevented, when setting the `dataSource` through set model.
*  \#205362 - Appointments can be rendered properly on the exact resource rows, while dropping it on the scheduler loaded with more number of resources.
*  \#205720 - The issue with quick drag-and-drop of appointments across the time range has been fixed. 
*  \#205720 - The issue with drag-and-drop of appointments that spans across two months has been fixed.
*  \#205720 - The issue while deleting recurrence appointment, on calling the `refreshAppointments` public method has been fixed.
*  \#205804 - The issue with accessing quick Pop-up window on schedule click has been fixed.
*  \#208317 - Localized text, spelling, and other grammatical errors of scheduler text has been corrected.
*  \#209440 - An issue with wrong drag-and-drop behavior of appointments, when partially hiding behind the scheduler view port edges has been fixed.
## ejSplitter

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejsplitter-bug-fixes}

* \#212784 – Added `action` type argument in `expandCollapse` and `beforeExpandCollapse` event.
## ejSpreadsheet

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejSpreadsheet-bug-fixes}

* \#210163 - Issue with scrolling by keyboard navigation in switched sheets is fixed.
* \#208485 - Issue with RangeSettings is not updated while updating the datasource using updateRange() method is fixed.
* \#203073, 209468 - Issue with formula update on short date, long date and general type in 'es-ES' culture is fixed.
* \#208579 - Issue with binding sheet columns property on initial rendering is fixed.
* \#207723 - Issue with horizontal scrollbar not moving left, while pressing left key after applying freeze top row is fixed.
* \#207039 - Issue with blank rows created while scrolling and resizing the Spreadsheet to maximum height is fixed.
* \#205304 - Issue in format applied formula cell not aligned properly and bad number formatting exception with format string {0:0.0000 €c} for zero value is fixed. 
* \#211244 - Issue in “args.cancel” property, for context menu beforeOpen event is fixed.
* \#210394 - Issue in merge cells, when text is aligned to right is fixed.
* \#214042 - Issue with cellClick event is not triggered in merge cells has been fixed.
* \#212055 - Improved celltype functionality when enable allowAutoCellType property.
* \#207162 - Provided support for summary type (Count, Min, Max and Product) in pivot table.
* \#197620 - Provided support for handling unknown formula in excel file on importing.
* \#204530 - Provided support for formula cell reference update used with conditional operators in autofill.
* \#204532 - Provided support for insert and delete in cell types. 
* \#211245 - Provided support for keyboard shortcuts, on allowKeyboardNavigation is set as false.
* \#213497 - Provided actionBegin event for insert and delete operations.
* \#189112 - Provided support for sheets scope option in NameManager.
## ejTab

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejtab-bug-fixes}

* \#208638 - The tab header no longer flickers when hovering over the tab scroll icon after closing a tab item.
* \210749 - Added `Refresh` method for refreshing tab using API.
## ejTextBoxes

### Bug Fixes	
{:#ejtextboxes-bug-fixes}

* \#211362 - Issue with typing letters in mobile devices has been fixed.
## ejTreeGrid

### Features
{:#ejtreegrid-features}

* \#206811, \#212562 - Now it is possible to search records along with its parent record.
* \#188259, \#195994 - Batch edit and batch save support has been implemented in TreeGrid.

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejtreegrid-bug-fixes}

* \#205681 - Issue in updating data source with total summary rows has been fixed.
* \#211707 - Issue with column resizing action in Firefox browser has been fixed.
## ejTreeView

### Features
{:#ejtreeview-features}

* \#203297 - Provided an option to prevent parent node from expanding while adding a node in the tree view control.

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejtreeview-bug-fixes}

* \#209252 -  The issue in selecting TreeView nodes in the TreeView template has been fixed.
## ejWaitingPopup

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejwaitingpopup-bug-fixes}

* \#210162 - Element rendered as waiting popup now requires ID attribute.
