---
title : Essential Studio for JavaScript 2018 Volume 1 Service Pack 1 Release Notes
description : Essential Studio for JavaScript 2018 Volume 1 Service Pack 1 Release Notes
platform : js
documentation: ug
---

# Essential Studio for JavaScript Release Notes

{% include release-info.html date=site.releasedate.2018_vol_1_SP1  version="v16.1.0.32" %} 



## Common

### Bug Fixes

{:#common-bug-fixes}

* \#197558 - Issue with tag creation while id with special character is fixed.
## ejAccordion

### Bug Fixes	
{:#ejAccordion-bug-fixes}

* \#199331 - The e-minus and e-plus icons are now added to the icons in the active Accordion's header.
## ejAutocomplete

### Bug fixes
{:#ejautocomplete-bug-fixes}

* \#198343 - Issue with value property if it's having the numeric value has been fixed.
* \#196283 - Provided support for value and key property using tag-helpers.


## ejChart

### Bug fixes
{:#ejchart-bug-fixes}
* \#196980 - Assigning the [`interval`](https://help.syncfusion.com/api/js/ejchart#members:primaryxaxis-range-interval) in `dateTimeCategory` axis is now working properly.
* \#197819 - Now, [`tooltip`](https://help.syncfusion.com/api/js/ejchart#members:series-tooltip) will be rendered properly for table elements.
* \#199607 - Now, [`zoom toolkit`](https://help.syncfusion.com/api/js/ejchart#members:zooming-toolbaritems) will be rendered properly while refreshing the chart.
* \#198412, 201293 - Now, chart will be rendered by using element’s both `id` and `class` names.
* \#199302 - [`Data labels`](https://help.syncfusion.com/api/js/ejchart#members:series-marker-datalabel) are now working properly without colliding each other in the accumulation series.
## ejCheckBox

### Bug fixes
{:#ejcheckbox-bug-fixes}

* \#135872 - Unchecked checkbox values will also be obtained on postback.

* \#136093 - ejCheckBox not getting unchecked on two-way binding has been fixed.

## ejCalculate

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejcalculate-bug-fixes}

* \#199726, #200744 - The formula calculation is working properly regardless of culture.
* \#197901 - The performance is improved for calculating the dependent formula cells.
* \#198883 - The `VLOOKUP` formula is now calculating the value properly when the dependent cells are updated.
* \#197901 - The `IF` formula is now calculating the sheet reference values properly.
* \#194317 - The `MATCH` formula is now working properly for the `MINUS (-)` operator.
## ejColorPicker

### Bug fixes
{:#ejcolorpicker-bug-fixes}

* \#198980 - Now, ejColorPicker allows to enter ‘#’ in the prefix of HEX code in German keyboard.


## ejComboBox 

### Bug Fixes	
{:#ejComboBox-bug-fixes}

* \#136550 - The Value is now updated correctly on the select element, even when the value contains space.
* \#200705 - The Console error is no longer thrown in IE9 browser, when placeholder is not set.
* \#199114 - Html Attributes of ComboBox are now applied to the select element.
## ejDataManager

### Features
{:#ejdatamanager-features}

* We can now enable or disable AJAX caching via `enableAJAXCache` API in the DataManager control. 

### Bug Fixes	
{:#ejdatamanager-bug-fixes}

* \#198986 - The `In` operator now supports number and datetime type data.
* \#200287 - DataManager now supports Daylight savings for individual dates.
* \#200708 - The ForeignKeyAdaptor no longer throws script error in Typescript (Aurelia)
* \#197320 - The ej.ServerTimeZone offset is no longer added twice, when performing update and insert operation.
## ejDatePicker

### Bug fixes
{:#ejdatepicker-bug-fixes}

* \#198971 - The readOnly property in ejDatePicker will restricts the change of value on rendering the popup,properly.

* \#197873 - DatePicker value can be given with or without client time zone by using timeZone property.
## ejDateRangePicker

### Bug fixes
{:#ejdaterangepicker-bug-fixes}

* \#195931 - Time lag on opening the popup in ejDateRangePicker has been fixed.

* \#136093 - Change event triggers when clicking cancel button in ejDateRangePicker has been fixed.

## ejDateTimePicker

### Bug fixes
{:#ejdatetimepicker-bug-fixes}

* \#198971 - The readOnly property in ejDateTimePicker will restricts the change of value on rendering the popup,properly.

* \#196608 - Performance issue while dynamically setting the properties in ejDateTimePicker has been fixed.


## ejDiagram

### Bug fixes
{:#ejdiagram-bug-fixes}

* \#198921 - Touch event not working for HTML content defined in the `HTMLNode` is fixed.
* \#136190 - When selecting multiple nodes along with connectors and perform resizing, its not proper when connector docking changed is fixed.
* \#200014 - When loading the older version of diagram and connector's connected between BPMN nodes not docked properly is fixed.

## ejDialog

### Bug fixes
{:#ejdialog-bug-fixes}

* \#200998 - Issue with actionButtonClick event is not triggered at firefox has been resolved.


## ejDraggable 

### Bug Fixes	
{:#ejDraggable-bug-fixes}

* \#199613 - Draggable issues with touch devices is now fixed.
.
## ejDropDownList

### Bug Fixes	
{:#ejdropdownlist-bug-fixes}

* \#132731,#201060 - The `getListData` method now return the list value properly.
* \#200510 - The Selected field in fields property can now be set dynamically.
## ejGantt

### Features
{:#ejgantt-features}

* \#198401 - Now it is possible to enable/disable the automatic update of schedule date values in Gantt.
* \#198322 - The Gantt control now provides the support to filter column with multiple conditions dynamically.
* \#F135428 - The Gantt control now provides the support to update the data source dynamically in resource allocation view.

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejgantt-bug-fixes}

* \#200693 - Now the `rowSelected` event triggered properly on mouse click action.
* \#199049 - Issue with dependency tasks validation on manual taskbar editing has been fixed. 
* \#198369 - Auto focusing issues in Gantt on toolbar click action has been fixed.
* \#198543 - Task label overlapping issue in Gantt has been fixed.

## ejGrid


### Bug Fixes
{:#ejGrid-bug-fixes}

*  \#200360 - Edit form is rendered properly even with irregular format property.
*  \#200606 - Combobox control works fine in Grid edit template.
*  \#199400 - Added $expand to the excel filter query for complex data.
*  \#198210 - Ungroup button is shown properly in IE when hovering.
*  \#198163 - Visible Columns Width is persisted while the undefined columns were not visible.
*  \#198323 - CellIndex value is correct in cellSelected event of ejGrid.
*  \#196266 - Horizontal scrollbar works fine when scroll through keyboard and grid content scroll works fine while selecting last column value.
*  \#196767 - checkbox selection is working properly after filtering any columns.
*  \#196518 - DataSource is updated properly when clearing the filtering in enableVirtualization.
*  \#195625 - Data binding to an empty Grid by means of dataSource method is populating Grid correctly.
*  \#198224 - Custom context menu naming mention works fine.
*  \#199179 - For two level grouping multiselect using checkbox is working properly.
## ejKanban

### Bug fixes
{:#ejkanban-bug-fixes}

* \#198062 - Drag and drop issue with different Kanban using remote data has been fixed.
* \#198697- Touch scrolling is not performed when Kanban scrollSettings enabled is fixed.

## ejListBox

### Bug fixes
{:#ejlistbox-bug-fixes}

* \#200938 - Issue with getCheckedItems method while sorting has been fixed.
* \#199825 - Issue with addItem method at initial rendering of Empty listbox has been fixed.
* \#198482 - Enlarged hover area issue with the cloned element dragging has been fixed.
* \#198483 - Datasource is not maintained properly with sorting while dragging and dropping is fixed.
* \#198236 - The dropping text shows properly when allowMultiSelection is enabled.
## ejMap

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejmap-bug-fixes}
* \#191065 - Now, multi-polygon shapes are being rendered properly.
## ejMaskEdit

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejmaskedit-bug-fixes}

* \#197921 - Unable to set complex values in MaskEdit component issue has been fixed.

## ejmGrid


### Bug Fixes
{:#ejmGrid-bug-fixes}

*  \#196506 - Grid content scrolling works fine when height is given as auto.
*  \#196723 - When columns with same headerText are given, grid columns are displayed properly.
## ejPdfViewer

### Features
{:#ejPdfViewer-features}

* \#194217 - The page break for each page will be maintained while printing in IE and MS Edge browsers using ejPdfViewer.
* \#196820 - The client buffering process of the ejPdfViewer will also support to render all the PDF pages in a single request.


### Bug Fixes
{:#ejPdfViewer-bug-fixes}

* \#200079 - The watermark text in the provided PDF document are now rendered properly.
* \#197343 - Text content in the PDF document is now rendered properly in the ejPdfViewer.
* \#197614 - The label text appearing during the printing operation of the PDF viewer control will support localization.
* \#197613 - The file name of the PDF document will be passed in the AJAX response from the server instead of full file path in the ejPdfViewer.
* \#198840 - The table in the provided PDF document will be rendered properly in the ejPdfViewer.
* \#197881 - Transparency of the text will be preserved properly in the ejPdfViewer.
* \#197886 - Contents in the PDF Document are now rendered properly in the ejPdfViewer.
* \#197888 - Contents in the provided PDF document will not overlap when viewed in the ejPdfViewer.
* \#195648 - Horizontal Scrollbar does not appear on resizing the browser window.



## ejRTE

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejrte-bug-fixes}

* \#199374 - Bold,Italic commands are now working properly with content pasted with styles, in IE and edge browsers.
## ejSchedule

### Breaking changes
{:#schedule-breaking-changes}

* Revamped the timezone functionality to update the appointments in DB with zero UTC and also to fetch and render the appointments in proper duration. Regarding this, the existing users need to make two specific changes from their application end –
    a. Explicitly converting the start and end time of appointments to universal time before updating to database.
    b. Also, converting start and end time to local time during appointments fetch up from database and assigning to Schedule dataSource.

### Bug fixes
{:#ejschedule-bug-fixes}

* \#199349 - `start` and `end` fields within `renderDates` API can now be set via set-model in horizontal orientation. 
* \#198598 - End time of an appointment is now displayed correctly, when `majorSlot` and `minorSlotCount` is set with values 720 and 1 respectively.
* \#198940 - Misalignment issue between timecells and workcells in safari browser is fixed.
* \#200131 - Drag and drop is now working properly, when `enableLoadOnDemand` is set to true.

## ejScroller

### Bug fixes
{:#ejscroller-bug-fixes}

* \#196805 - Performance issue in ejScroller on initial rendering in IE browser has been fixed.

## ejSpreadsheet

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejspreadsheet-bug-fixes}

* \#196922, \#200782 – Issue with date format recognized as a number in hr-HR culture is fixed.
* \#199288 – Issue with text value not retained properly while giving more than MAX SAFE INTEGER via cell data binding is fixed.
* \#201099 – Issue with insert comment when 'allowEditing' property set to false is fixed.
* \#201263 – Issue with hidden (first & last) sheets are shown while performing sheet navigation using pager is fixed.
* \#200779, \#200781 – Issue with parsing date and time format in "de-DE" culture while editing the cell is fixed.
* \#200778 – Issue with short date format "dd.mm.yyyy" not maintained in "de-DE" culture is fixed.
* \#198537, \#198606 - Spreadsheet goes to unresponsive state in latest jQuery version with material theme is fixed.
* \#198494 - Issue with chart element position is not refreshed properly when hide or show the row is fixed.
* \#197367 - Issue with deleteSheet method needs to prevent confirm dialog is fixed.
* \#197601 - Issue with fitHeight method shows white space with row contains '\n' in cell values.
* \#196917 - Issue with addCustomFormatSpecifier method with custom date format is fixed.
* \#196299 - Improved performance for wrap text feature.
## ejTreeGrid

### Features
{:#ejtreegrid-features}

* \#198322 - The TreeGrid control now provides the support to filter column with multiple conditions dynamically.
* \#195738 - Now it is possible to customize the detail template column width in TreeGrid.

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejtreegrid-bug-fixes}

* \#197718 - Issue with column validation on row add action has been fixed.
* \#197216 – Alignment issue in frozen column with text wrap enabled mode has been fixed.

## ejTreeView

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejtreeview-bug-fixes}

* \#199157 - The issue of unable to add child nodes dynamically in TreeView template issue has been fixed.
## ejUploadbox

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejuploadbox-bug-fixes}

* \#198212 - Synchronously Uploaded File is received in saveDefault method in drag and drop Uploadbox.
