---
title: Essential Studio for JavaScript  2018 Volume 4 NuGet package release  Release Notes  
description: Essential Studio for JavaScript  2018 Volume 4 NuGet package release  Release Notes  
platform: js
documentation: ug
---

# Essential Studio for JavaScript  Release Notes  

{% include release-info.html date="January 8, 2019"  version="v16.4.0.46" %} 




## ejReportViewer

### Features

* \#222076 – Provided the `InScope` expression support for data region and its group elements.

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejreportviewer-bug-fixes}

* \#221279 – Resolved applying transparent color to the Tablix header cell content and background while exporting the PDF and Word documents through the Web ReportDesigner.
* \#219805 – Now, Excel sheet names with Unicode characters exports properly.
* \#221279 – Text box report item height not updated problem based on line feed elements has been resolved.
* \#220969 – Resolved additional space problem in Excel export if the `KeepWithGroup` Before option is enabled in the Tablix report item.
* \#221556 – Now, the report with `Globals.PageName` built-in collection exports directly through the ReportWriter.
* \#222390 – Resolved built-in collection `Globals.PageNumber` text run right alignment problem in PDF.
* \#222198 - Dependent parameter value updates properly in rendering the layout after clicking the view report.
* \#222840 – Now, the Tablix grouping column width updates properly in Excel export.
* \#219541 – Chart data label angle specified for the line chart displays properly in the ReportViewer.
## ejRTE

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejrte-bug-fixes}

* \#221308 - Table properties height not updated for selected rows in table issue has been fixed.

## ejSpellCheck

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejspellcheck-bug-fixes}

* \#223052 - Exception raised when using ASP.NET web method for spell check issue has been fixed.

