---
title: Essential Studio for JavaScript 2018 Volume 3 Service Pack 1 Release Notes 
description: Essential Studio for JavaScript 2018 Volume 3 Service Pack 1 Release Notes 
platform: js
documentation: ug
---

# Essential Studio for JavaScript Release Notes 

{% include release-info.html date=site.releasedate.2018_vol_3_sp1  version="v16.3.0.29" %} 

<style>
#license {
    font-size: .88em!important;
margin-top: 1.5em;     margin-bottom: 1.5em;
    background-color: #def8ff;
    padding: 10px 17px 14px;
}
</style>

<div id="license">
Starting with version 16.2 (2018 Vol 2), you need to include a valid license key (either paid or trial key) within your applications. 
Please refer to this <a href="/common/essential-studio/licensing/license-key">help topic</a> for more information 
</div>




## Common

### Bug Fixes

{:#common-bug-fixes}

* \#212870 - EJ mobile source files (script and themes) missed in the previous release have been added.

* \#217828 - Issue with navigating back to the latest version of the theme studio application has been fixed.

* \#216410 - Sparkline will be working in 4.6 .NET framework.

* \#214579 - Error will not be thrown while filtering using GUID value in `Data Operations`

## ejAutocomplete

### Bug fixes
{:#ejautocomplete-bug-fixes}

* \#217179 – Script error is resolved when set the `value` property as `null` through setModel.
* \#216476 – Script error is resolved when `focusOut` action is performed on autocomplete.
* \#212623, #217350, #215336 - Provided high priority for `selectValueByKey` property when `value` property set on autocomplete.
## ejCalculate

### Bug fixes
{:#ejcalculate-bug-fixes}

*	\#215310 – The `Trim` formula returns proper result when using value with tic character.
*	\#207206 – The `Year(Now())` , `Year(Date())`, and `Year(Today())` formulas calculates the value properly in `Google Chrome` and `IE11` browsers.

## ejColorPicker

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejcolorpicker-bug-fixes}

* \#214279 - Accessibility related issues in ColorPicker has been fixed.
## ejDataManager

### Bug Fixes	
{:#ejdatamanager-bug-fixes}

* \#215781, \#139731 - The date without time will be working fine in PHP server.
## ejDatePicker

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejdatepicker-bug-fixes}

* \#215282 - While assigning the id values with HTML attributes, same id is set for both wrapper and input for datepicker control is fixed.
## ejDiagram

### Bug fixes
{:#ejdiagram-bug-fixes}

* \#F139687 - Now able to modify the swimlane's phase offset at run time.
* \#214386 - Connector's route now updated properly in swimlane diagram when line routing feature is enabled.
* \#216704 - Drag and drop functionality is now working properly when rendering the diagram in quirk mode.
* \#217771 - Port dragging is now working properly when adding the new ports to the node at runtime.
* \#215897 - When customizing the ruler interval and dragging the node, the node now snaps properly with nearest gridline.
* \#215951 - Now able to resize the BPMN DataObject node.
## ejDialog

### Bug fixes
{:#ejdialog-bug-fixes}

* \#F140492 – Dialog content hiding issue resolved when maximize the dialog. 
* \#214829 – Dialog vertical scroll bar issue is resolved when resizing the browser window.

## ejDropDownList

### Bug Fixes	
{:#ejdropdownlist-bug-fixes}

* \#217534 - The value is not removed when changing the datasource with the same datasource.
* \#215784 - Console error is no longer thrown when drop down list have treeview data with integer value.
* \#215952 - Grouping is properly enabled when `load ondemand` is enabled and adding datasource dynamically.
* \#215519 - Selection of popup list items is now proper when the filtering and keyboard navigation are enabled
* \#214223 - Addition of name attribute using `html attributes` property is now available.
* \#214670 - The selection of filtered checked and unchecked options which are in the popup list has been fixed.


## ejGantt

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejgantt-bug-fixes}

* Issue with taskbar tool tip position when tool tip has more content has been fixed.
## ejGrid


### Bug Fixes
{:#ejGrid-bug-fixes}

*  \#216595 - When select all checkbox is checked, the arguments of `rowSelected` event contains data of all the records.
*  \#215791 - Column width is updated correctly in the `resizeEnd` event arguments when a column is resized.
*  \#216704 - The checkbox selection in Excel filter dialog works fine for the dates which have year values in single digit.
## ejKanban

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejkanban-bug-fixes}

* \#217577 – Issue with the combination of `allowToggleColumn` and card dropping is resolved when column has no cards in it. 
* \#217794 – Script error is resolved when set the `dataSource` value as `null`.
## ejListBox

### Bug fixes
{:#ejlistbox-bug-fixes}

* \#216490 – `Change` event triggering issue resolved when clicking the first and the second listbox element.
## ejListView

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejlistview-bug-fixes}

* \#F140302, F140304, 217417 – Issue resolved with listview template rendering.

## ejMap

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejmap-bug-fixes}

*  \#217516 - No unwanted text will be added to OSM type layer now.
## ejMediaPlayer

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejmediaplayer-bug-fixes}

* \#214829 - Issue in switch the video URL dynamically in Media Player component has been fixed.
## ejPdfViewer

### Features
{:#ejPdfViewer-features}

* \#215410 – Exposed an API updateViewerSize to resize the PDF Viewer control.
* \#212436 - Exposed an event ajaxRequestSuccess to receive the JSON data on success of AJAX request.


### Bug Fixes
{:#ejPdfViewer-bug-fixes}

* \#215198 - Border of the text boxes are rendered properly in the PDF Viewer control.
* \#194821 - The text is now copied properly with Ctrl+C command in the PDF Viewer control.
* \#216641 - Exception is no longer occurred while running the PDF Viewer sample created using Sample creator.
* \#214279 - Error is no longer occurred on using WAVE tool in the PDF Viewer control.
* \#213347 - Error is no longer occurred while opening PDF documents downloaded from PDF Viewer in Adobe Reader.
* \#212698 - Content in the PDF document is now rendered properly in the printed output in PDF Viewer control.
* \#215333 - CPU usage is now reduced while clicking the text boxes in PDF Viewer in MS Edge.


## ejRadioButton

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejradiobutton-bug-fixes}

* \#211633 - RadioButton icon is not aligned properly issue is resolved.
## ejReportViewer

### Features

* \#216091, #211268 – Provided user defined custom attribute to render the trendline chart.
* \#217143 – Provided support to show the tooltip for chart series.

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejreportviewer-bug-fixes}

* \#218557 – The blank page rendering issue when using the nested tablix with span cells has been resolved.
* \#216640 – Now, Lookup, LookupSet, MultiLookup miscellaneous functions return correct values when different scopes are used in single expression.
* \#215937 – NRE in the chart report item when it contains legend title has been resolved.
* \#213670 – Now, the external font is applied properly in the chrome browser when font contains spacing character.
* \#215645 – Now, the export and fit to page toolbar options are updated properly based on focus.
* \#215524 – The parameter block visibility problem in the print layout when the view report action is triggered has been resolved.

## ejRTE

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejrte-bug-fixes}

* \#212831 - Alignment of the content is set properly in the rte.
* \#215126, \#217155 - The br tag and quot will be properly validated in the RTE value.
## ejSchedule

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejschedule-bug-fixes}

* \#212501 - An issue with appointment dragging on more than two days, when `startHour` and `endHour` were set on the scheduler has been fixed.
* \#140117 - An issue with incorrect display of major slot values, while using `majorSlotTemplateId` has been fixed.
* \#214131 - An issue with rendering scheduler, while setting `false` to the properties `showWeekend` and `showNextPrevMonth` has been fixed now.
* \#209440 - The original appointment object collection is now additionally passed as argument in `dragStop` event.
* \#213963 - Auto-scrolling is now enabled for multiple cell selection done through the mouse.
* \#125939 - Public method `showAppointmentWindow` has been introduced to open the appointment window manually.
* \#140121 - Misalignment issue while rendering the scheduler with block appointments in horizontal orientation has been fixed.
## ejScroller

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejscroller-bug-fixes}

* \#214772 - Content not scrolled completely, when multiple scroller are rendered in a same page and having target pane with common class issue is resolved.
## ejSplitter

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejsplitter-bug-fixes}

* \#F140525 – Splitter last pane hiding issue resolved when window resized.
## ejSpreadsheet

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejspreadsheet-bug-fixes}

* \# 215746 - Issue with readOnly option in copy/paste cells is fixed.
* \# 215196 - Issue with allowSheetOnDemand while navigating sheets after import is fixed.
* \# 214815 - Issue with wrap text applied cell is misaligned with Accounting format is fixed.
* \# 216192 - Issue with formula cells are not applied while update the formula value form server side is fixed.
* \# 213249 - Issue with row/column header misaligned while performing wrap text is fixed.
* \# 216089 - Provided actionBegin event for cut/copy operation.


## ejTab

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejtab-bug-fixes}

* \#140394 - The keyboard navigation is not working hereafter for hidden tab items.
* \#140407 - Dynamic added tabs doesn't set heightAdjustMode: 'fill' properly, which has been fixed
## ejTreeGrid

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejtreegrid-bug-fixes}

* \#216853 - Issue in search text box with multiple tree grid in same page has been fixed.
* \#217739 - Issue in updateRecordByIndex public method with batch editing has been fixed.
* \#216627 - Now it is possible to get the hidden column field value in actionComplete event arguments.


## ejTreeView

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejtreeview-bug-fixes}

* \#214770 - Issue with the name attribute of the tree node's checkbox element has been fixed.

* \#214927 - Issue with rendering TreeView with duplicate node "ID" has been fixed.

* \#215184 - Issue with dropping the tree node at the last position of TreeView has been fixed.

