---
title: Essential Studio for JavaScript 2018 Volume 2 Release Notes
description: Essential Studio for JavaScript 2018 Volume 2 Release Notes
platform: js
documentation: ug
---

# Essential Studio for JavaScript Release Notes

{% include release-info.html date=site.releasedate.2018_vol_2  version="v16.2.0.41" %} 


<style>
#license {
    font-size: .88em!important;
margin-top: 1.5em;     margin-bottom: 1.5em;
    background-color: #def8ff;
    padding: 10px 17px 14px;
}
</style>

<div id="license">
Starting with version 16.2 (2018 Vol 2), you need to include a valid license key (either paid or trial key) within your applications. 
Please refer to this <a href="/common/essential-studio/licensing/license-key">help topic</a> for more information.  
</div>




## Common

### Features

{:#common-features}

* Added EJ1 with EJ2 theme compatibility CSS in the download option of Theme Studio application.
* Essential Studio for JavaScript components are now compatible with the latest version of jQuery 3.3.1

### Bug Fixes

{:#common-bug-fixes}

* \#197558 - Issue with tag creation while id with special character is fixed.
* \#201697 - Performance issue in deep copy with grid data is fixed.
* \#199707 - The Waiting popup image missing in common images issue has been fixed.
## ejAccordion

### Bug Fixes	
{:#ejAccordion-bug-fixes}

* \#199331 - The e-minus and e-plus icons are now added to the icons in the active Accordion's header.
## ejAutocomplete

### Bug fixes
{:#ejautocomplete-bug-fixes}

* \#198343 - Issue with value property if it's having the numeric value has been fixed.
* \#196283 - Provided support for value and key property using tag-helpers.


## ejButton

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejbutton-bug-fixes}

*	\#204282 – Theme compatibility issue with EJ 1 buttons is fixed.
## ejChart


### Features
{:#ejchart-features}

* \#199758 - RTL support has been provided for legend, tooltip, and zooming toolkit in chart.
* \#F135203 - Support has been provided to rotate axis label with the text anchor as start.


### Bug Fixes
{:#ejchart-bug-fixes}

* \#196980 - Assigning the [`interval`](https://help.syncfusion.com/api/js/ejchart#members:primaryxaxis-range-interval) in `dateTimeCategory` axis is now working properly.
* \#197819 - Now, [`tooltip`](https://help.syncfusion.com/api/js/ejchart#members:series-tooltip) will be rendered properly for table elements.
* \#199607 - Now, [`zoom toolkit`](https://help.syncfusion.com/api/js/ejchart#members:zooming-toolbaritems) will be rendered properly while refreshing the chart.
* \#198412, 201293 - Now, chart will be rendered by using element’s both `id` and `class` names.
* \#199302 - [`Data labels`](https://help.syncfusion.com/api/js/ejchart#members:series-marker-datalabel) are now working properly without colliding each other in the accumulation series.
* \#136995 - Now, column chart will render properly while setting series [`type`](https://help.syncfusion.com/api/js/ejchart#members:series-type) in pascal case.
* Now, chart will be render properly, when the [`size`](https://help.syncfusion.com/api/js/ejchart#members:size) is 99% of parent container.


## ejCalculate

### Features
{:#ejcalculate-features}

*	\#196136 - Provided support for single cell and multi cells array formula calculations.
*	\#189112, \#201131 - Provided support for table structured reference formula calculations.
*	\#196136 - Provided the `COUNTIFS` formula support.

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejcalculate-bug-fixes}

*	\#202564 - The uncaught mismatched string quotes exception is no longer thrown when using the `setKeyValue` method of `CalcQuick` while passing text with special characters.
*	\#202564 - The `LOWER` formula is now working properly.

## ejComboBox 

### Bug Fixes	
{:#ejComboBox-bug-fixes}

* \#136550 - The Value is now updated correctly on the select element, even when the value contains space.
* \#200705 - The Console error is no longer thrown in IE9 browser, when placeholder is not set.
* \#199114 - Html Attributes of ComboBox are now applied to the select element.
## ejDataManager

### Features
{:#ejdatamanager-features}

* We can now enable or disable AJAX caching via `enableAjaxCache` API in the DataManager control.

### Bug Fixes	
{:#ejdatamanager-bug-fixes}

* \#198986 - The `In` operator now supports number and datetime type data.
* \#200287 - DataManager now supports Daylight savings for individual dates.
* \#200708 - The ForeignKeyAdaptor no longer throws script error in Typescript (Aurelia)
* \#197320 - The ej.ServerTimeZone offset is no longer added twice, when performing update and insert operation.
* \#200772,#198430 - The primary key value as string data type, is now sent in proper format during batch update request.
* \#205948 - Added support to encode the special characters in the query string.
* \#205156 - Fixed exceptions when value column containing Guid is filtered.
## ejDateRangePicker

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejdaterangepicker-bug-fixes}

*	\#202762 - Date value will now get updated, while selecting a time value from the time popup list.
## ejDiagram

### Bug fixes
{:#ejdiagram-bug-fixes}

* \#198921 - Touch event not working for HTML content defined in the `HTMLNode` is fixed.
* \#136190 - When selecting multiple nodes along with connectors and perform resizing, its not proper when connector docking changed is fixed.
* \#200014 - When loading the older version of diagram and connector's connected between BPMN nodes not docked properly is fixed.
* \#201479 - Edit textbox not positioned properly while editing BPMN shape and `showRulers` property set as true is fixed.
* \#136527 - Exception raised when defining the `dataSourceSettings` and loading in the diagram through `load` is fixed.
* \#200014 - When set the `serializationSettings.preventDefaultValues` as true and save and load the diagram, Label's position not retained properly is fixed.
* \#137295 - Not able to interact with UML class diagram shapes is fixed.

### Features
{:#ejdiagram-features}

 * \#125463, 125593, 133145, 126648, 142340, 147493, 157092, 167300, 172181, 176433, 178583 - Support to automatically re-route the line around the nodes if any nodes is found in between line is added.
## ejDialog

### Bug fixes
{:#ejdialog-bug-fixes}

* \#200998 - Issue with `actionButtonClick` event is not triggered at firefox has been resolved.


## ejDraggable 

### Bug Fixes	
{:#ejDraggable-bug-fixes}

* \#199613 - Draggable issues with touch devices is now fixed.
* \#203669 - Draggable now supports jQuery v3.0 and above with touch devices
.
## ejDropDownList

### Bug Fixes	
{:#ejdropdownlist-bug-fixes}

* \#132731,#201060 - The `getListData` method now return the list value properly.
* \#200510 - The Selected field in fields property can now be set dynamically.
* \#204584,#205005 - Knockout's Observable array now works properly with datasource property.
## ejDropDownTree

### Bug Fixes	
{:#ejdropdowntree-bug-fixes}

* \#206096 - The `GetSelectedValue` method now return the value properly.
## ejGantt

### Features
{:#ejgantt-features}

* \#198401 - Now it is possible to enable/disable the automatic update of schedule date values in Gantt.
* \#198322 - The Gantt control now provides the support to filter column with multiple predicates dynamically.
* \#F135428 - The Gantt control now provides the support to update the data source dynamically in resource allocation view.
* Now it is possible to update a task dynamically in resource allocation view in Gantt


### Bug Fixes
{:#ejgantt-bug-fixes}
* \#205646 - Issue with `searchItem` method has been fixed.
* \#203527 - Issue with multiple selection in resource allocation view has been fixed.
* \#200693 - Now the `rowSelected` event triggered properly on mouse click action.
* \#199049 - Issue with dependency tasks validation on manual taskbar editing has been fixed. 
* \#198369 - Auto focusing issue in Gantt on toolbar click action has been fixed.
* \#198543 - Task label overlapping issue in Gantt has been fixed.
* \#206486, F137757 - Issue in exporting parent task with a milestone child task has been fixed.

## ejGrid


### Bug Fixes
{:#ejGrid-bug-fixes}

*  \#197010 - When field is given for checkbox column, command button click event triggers properly.
*  \#201949 - Scroller renders fine, when grid is hidden.
*  \#203976 - `setCellValue` method works properly on insert operation.
*  \#204135 - Grouping of columns with the same header text and with visibility property set as false works properly. 
*  \#200452 - Selection is working properly, while holding the shift key.
*  \#201283 - When `enableVirtualization` is true, the content scrolls fine in mobile device.
*  \#201284 - When down arrow key is used to traverse the rows, page is scrolled only after the last row.
*  \#205081 - `changePageSize` method works fine.

## ejGroupButton

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejgroupbutton-bug-fixes}

*	\#135872 – GroupButton control will now be responsive with the window size.
## ejHeatMap

### Bug fixes
{:#ejheatmap-bug-fixes}

* \#204043 - While defining the `ColorMappingCollection` with negative values, HeatMapLegend not rendered properly is fixed.
## ejKanban

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejkanban-bug-fixes}

* \#198062 - Drag and drop issue with different Kanban using remote data has been fixed.
* \#198697 - Touch scrolling is not performed when Kanban scrollSettings enabled is fixed.
* \#202137 - Touch scrolling issue in devices has been resolved.
* \#201873 - Particular column width is not updated properly while using the width in percentage has been fixed.
* \#204582 - Waiting popup hides before the GET post when drag and drop the cards issue has been fixed.
* \#204101 - Issue with when dropping the card into bottom of the `showAddButton` columns is resolved. 
* \#203773 - Unwanted request passes to server side when swimlane `allowDragAndDrop` is enabled issue has been fixed.
* \#F135713 - Kanban drag and drop is performed properly after dialog drag and drop.
* \#205526 - Script error resolved when drag and drop the card using `dropdown` filtering with custom toolbar and enabled priority key property. 
## ejListBox

### Bug fixes
{:#ejlistbox-bug-fixes}

* \#203449 - If using the remote datasource, `checkChange` event is triggered at control initialization issue has been fixed.
* \#200938 - Issue with getCheckedItems method while sorting has been fixed.
* \#199825 - Issue with addItem method at initial rendering of Empty listbox has been fixed.
* \#198482 - Enlarged hover area issue with the cloned element dragging has been fixed.
* \#198483 - Datasource is not maintained properly with sorting while dragging and dropping is fixed.
* \#198236 - The dropping text shows properly when `allowMultiSelection` is enabled.
## ejListView

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejlistview-bug-fixes}

* \#204267 – The `getCheckedItemsText` method is working properly after unchecked all items in listview.
* \#201336 - The `checkedIndices` property is working properly in ListView while enabling the unobtrusive mode.

## ejMap

### Features
{:#ejmap-features}

* \#195450, 196781, 196829 - Performance of the map control has been improved.
* Support has been provided to toggle the visibility of map shapes when clicking the corresponding legend.

### Bug fixes
{:#ejmap-bug-fixes}

* \#191065 - Multi-polygon shapes are rendered properly.
* \#202704 – The Home button in navigation bar of the tile map is working properly even after the minimum zoom level has been changed.
* \#200384 - Map maintains its zoomed state after the refresh method has been called.
* Bing map is upgraded from version 6.3 API to use version 8.0 REST API services.
## ejMaskEdit

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejmaskedit-bug-fixes}

* \#197921 - Unable to set complex values in MaskEdit component issue has been fixed.

## ejNumericTextbox

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejnumerictextbox-bug-fixes}

* \#203386 - The issue of unable to type the "." character in NumericTextbox has been fixed.

## ejPdfViewer

### Features
{:#ejPdfViewer-features}

* \#194217 - The page break for each page will be maintained while printing in Internet Explorer and Microsoft Edge browsers using ejPdfViewer.
* \#196820 - The client buffering process of the ejPdfViewer will also support to render all the PDF pages in a single request.


### Bug Fixes
{:#ejPdfViewer-bug-fixes}

* \#200079 - The watermark text in the provided PDF document are now rendered properly.
* \#197343 - Text content in the PDF document is now rendered properly in the ejPdfViewer.
* \#197614 - The label text appearing during the printing operation of the PDF viewer control will support localization.
* \#197613 - The file name of the PDF document will be passed in the AJAX response from the server instead of full file path in the ejPdfViewer.
* \#198840 - The table in the provided PDF document will be rendered properly in the ejPdfViewer.
* \#197881 - Transparency of the text will be preserved properly in the ejPdfViewer.
* \#197886 - Contents in the PDF Document are now rendered properly in the ejPdfViewer.
* \#197888 - Contents in the provided PDF document will not overlap when viewed in the ejPdfViewer.
* \#195648 - Horizontal Scrollbar does not appear on resizing the browser window.
* \#200805 - The image is now rendered properly while printing the provided PDF document. 
* \#163277 - The background color is now preserved properly while rendering the provided PDF document.
* \#201397 - Dotted lines in the provided PDF document are now rendered properly in the ejPdfViewer.
* \#201274 - Fallback font is now preserved properly while rendering the PDF document, if the used system fonts are not installed in the machine.
* \#201396 - The PDF documents are not swapped anymore, while viewing the documents from two different machines.
* \#201391 - Vertical lines in the provided PDF document are now rendered properly while viewing in lower zoom percentage. 
* \#200597, \#198377, \#F136889 - The contents of the provided PDF document are now rendered properly in the ejPdfViewer.
* \#198196, \#201705 - Font name and style are preserved properly while rendering the provided PDF document in the ejPdfViewer.
* \#F136889 - Search instances are now highlighted properly while searching the text in the provided PDF document.
* \#203696 - Text box single click behavior is now works as expected.
* \#204209 - Exception will no longer be thrown while loading the provided PDF document in the ejPdfViewer.
* \#204321 - Text box multi-line text is now preserved properly while downloading the PDF document from ejPdfViewer.





## ejPivotChart

### Features
{:#ejpivotchart-features}

*  \#170603, #137191, #195510, #198184 - PivotChart can be rendered with multiple axis now.
## ejPivotClient

### Features	
{:#ejpivotclient-features}

*  \#198135 - Calculated members and measures are supported dynamically at runtime.

## ejRating

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejrating-bug-fixes}

* \#205398 - Two way binding support for value property is now working properly in rating.
## ejReportDesigner `Preview`

The Report Designer component for web platform has been included to create and edit the RDL standard reports. The Report Designer control supports users to transform data into meaningful information and visualize them.

### Features
{:#ejreportdesigner-features}

* **Data Sources**: Supports wide range of data sources to explore data using connections to major data providers such as Microsoft SQL Server, Oracle, OLED, and ODBC.

* **Report items**: Provides better data visualization using report items such as built-in, including charts, grids, pivot grids, subreports, textboxes, images, lines, and rectangles.

* **Report Parameter**: Supports connecting related reports together and filtering data in queries.

* **Image Manager**: Supports including and managing an embedded image inside the report.

* **Property Panel**: Allows users to view and modify the configurations of selected report item.

* **Expression**: Built-in Expression Editor is available to create expressions with RDL Report standard to specify or calculate values for parameters, queries, filters, report item properties, groups, sorts, images, and dynamic page header and footer content.


## ejReportViewer

### Features

* \#199012 - Provided support to render 3D chart when it is enabled.

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejreportviewer-bug-fixes}

* \#201595 - Date format in chart axis values will render properly.
* \#201290 - Now, SSRS Report Server hosted images is render properly in preview.
* \#200716 - Resolved the RDLC sub report loading problem due to null reference exception.
* \#199482 - Now, command type is serialized properly for shared dataset.
* \#198092 - Resolved command line issue in dataset filter expression.
* \#197529 - Resolved the chart series border style serialization problem.
* \#197529 - Label visibility property will serialize properly when specified as expression.

## ejRibbon

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejribbon-bug-fixes}

* \#201099 - The ‘getTabText’ method returns the text of removed tab in Ribbon issue has been fixed.
## ejRotator

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejrotator-bug-fixes}

* \#F135841 - Thumb width is increased more than the thumb items width issue has been fixed.

## ejRTE

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejrte-bug-fixes}

* \#202792  - Find and replace feature now works properly with WholeWord option.
* \#204684  - Issue in showDimension property is fixed.
* \#205888,#205916 - Title and Meta tags added in the RTE's iframe body will be remove when enableXHTML property is set as true.
## ejSchedule

###  Breaking Changes
{:#ejschedule-breaking-changes}

*  We have now integrated into our source - the time conversion process of appointment’s start and end time to Universal (UTC) time before updating to database; and another conversion of the same to the local time on initial fetch up from database before assigning to Schedule `dataSource`. Therefore, the explicit appointment time conversions from application end is no more needed.

### Bug fixes
{:#ejschedule-bug-fixes}

* \#199349: `start` and `end` fields within `renderDates` API can now be set via set-model in horizontal orientation. 
* \#198598: End time of an appointment is displayed correctly when the values for `majorSlot` and `minorSlotCount` are set as 720 and 1 respectively.
* \#198940: Misalignment issue between timecells and workcells in safari browser has been fixed.
* \#200131: Drag and drop is working properly when the `enableLoadOnDemand` property is set to true.
* \#201739: An issue with selecting time in an appointment window is fixed, when the locale set to the schedule does not support 12 hours format.  
* \#202854: Resource details are now displayed properly in appointment window after performing specific CRUD operations on appointments.
* \#202242: Overlapping of appointments with different timings on the same date has been prevented.
* \#202927: Width of the schedule is now ignored from persisting.
* \#202737: Setting `appointmentSettings.dataSource` value via setmodel is now working fine in Agenda view. 
* \#203669: Issues with appointments are not rendering properly when created with same date and different month; appointment height is not updated properly on resizing; and `dragStop` event was not triggering, when drag and drop the appointment at the same time has been fixed.
* \#199815: An issue when using the `queryCellInfo` event in horizontal orientation has been fixed.
* \#204514: End time will be shown correctly in edit appointment window for all the locale.
* \#204745: Appointments created with end time set to 12:00 AM is now rendering properly on all the views.
* \#205720: Context menu will open properly now, when right clicked over the appointments that was customized with template option.
* \#205844: The `appointmentClick` event will now expose the target event details in its argument list.
* \#135369: Performance issue with month view, when loading more appointments on it has been fixed.
* \#204085: Appointments are rendering properly now, when it is edited or deleted by using `Future events` option.
* \#205720: Appointments will now rendered on correct time in iPad and also horizontal scroller will position properly on appointment click.
* \#207408: Appointments will be dropped on correct resources in timeline view on slight drag.
* \#205290: `actionComplete` event now triggers after schedule resize and also `allDay` appointments displayed with same start and end time.
* \#205362: Appointments now dropped properly when quick drag occurs.

## ejScroller

### Features
{:#ejscroller-features}

*	\#201283 – Content scrolling speed in mobile devices has been improved equivalent to native scrolling.
## ejSparkline

### Bug fixes
{:#ejsparkline-bug-fixes}

* \#197880 – Sparkline is rendered properly with unsorted values.
## ejSpreadsheet

### Features

{:#ejspreadsheet-features}

* Provided support for array formulas.
* Provided support for structured references with tables.

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejspreadsheet-bug-fixes}

* \#196922, #200782 – Issue with date format recognized as a number in hr-HR culture is fixed.
* \#199288 – Issue with text value not retained properly while giving more than MAX SAFE INTEGER via cell data binding is fixed.
* \#201099 – Issue with insert comment when ‘allowEditing’ property set to false is fixed.
* \#201263 – Issue with hidden (first & last) sheets are shown while performing sheet navigation using pager is fixed.
* \#200779, #200781 – Issue with parsing date and time format in “de-DE” culture while editing the cell is fixed.
* \#200778 – Issue with short date format “dd.mm.yyyy” not maintained in “de-DE” culture is fixed.
* \#198537, #198606 - Spreadsheet goes to unresponsive state in latest jQuery version with material theme is fixed.
* \#198494 - Issue with chart element position is not refreshed properly when hide or show the row is fixed.
* \#197367 - Issue with deleteSheet method needs to prevent confirm dialog is fixed.
* \#197601 - Issue with fitHeight method shows white space with row contains ‘\n’ in cell values.
* \#196917 - Issue with addCustomFormatSpecifier method with custom date format is fixed.
* \#202315 – Issue with chart Y axis is not refreshed on updating its range value when exceeds the max value is fixed.
* \#201509 – Issue with editing valid option doesn’t allow in list validation with cross sheet reference is fixed.
* \#197901 – Issue with calculation option is not maintained on excel importing is fixed.
* \#201255 – Issue with picture collections are not same in both 'saveAsJSON()' and 'XLExport.getExportProps()' methods is fixed.
* \#190480 – Issue with border is not applied properly with merged cells which placed inside selected range is fixed.
* \#201052 – Issue with long date formatted cells doesn't inherit the text formatting when using formula cell reference is fixed.
* \#F136314 – Issue with auto focusing to ejSpreadsheet on page load is fixed.
* \#193531 – Issue with blank space appeared at bottom while navigating sheets after hide/show Ribbon is fixed.
* \#204291 – Issue with wrap text applied on importing, when disabled AllowWrap is fixed.  
* \#204529 – Issue with formulas contains absolute cell reference throws #REF! error on insert/delete (row & column) is fixed.
* \#197504 - Issue with addTab method having incorrect arguments is fixed.
* \#196299 - Improved performance for wrap text feature.
* \#201688 - Improved performance for exporting feature.
* \#196299 – Improved performance of applying wrap text with enabled AllowFreezing.
* \#202236, #203073, #204468, #205304 - Improved for number formatting with decimal and thousand separator based on culture.
* \#205152 – Provided option to get file name on excel importing (FILE->Open) using beforeImport event.
* \#200870 – Provided support to update named range reference on insert/delete row.
* \#201483 – Provided adaptive support to Border list options (in Ribbon) for minimal window height.
* \#196486 – Provided support to refresh chart on inserting column in-between chart (continuous) data range.
* \#204530 - Provided support for cell reference update used with conditional operators in autofill.
## ejTab

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejtab-bug-fixes}

* \#201619 - The left or right margin of the tab is no longer shown, when the tab content is more than the width.
## ejTreeGrid

### Features
{:#ejtreegrid-features}

* Now it is possible to expand/collapse total summary and customize the total summary height in TreeGrid.
* \#198322 - The TreeGrid control now provides the support to filter column with multiple predicates dynamically.
* \#195738 - Now it is possible to customize the detail template column width in TreeGrid.
* \#195133 - The TreeGrid control now provides support to perform CRUD operations through data manager using URL and WebAPI adaptors.

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejtreegrid-bug-fixes}

* \#197718 - Issue with column validation on row add action has been fixed.
* \#197216 – Alignment issue in frozen column with text wrap enabled mode has been fixed.
* \#204996 - Issue in inline editing with command columns has been fixed.
* \#205681 - Issue in updating data source with total summary rows has been fixed.
## ejTreeMap

### Features
{:#ejtreemap-features}

* Support has been provided to render the tree map from any specific level instead of first level.
## ejTreeView

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejtreeview-bug-fixes}

* \#199157 - The issue of unable to add child nodes dynamically in TreeView template issue has been fixed.

* \#202476 – In TreeView, ‘nodeDragStop’ event argument returning wrong value issue has been fixed.

* \#197974 - Fixed issue with TreeView drag and drop in IOS with the CSG generated files.

* \#207374 - Fixed script error in the drag and drop operation of TreeView template.

## ejUploadbox

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejuploadbox-bug-fixes}

* \#198212 - Synchronously Uploaded File is received in saveDefault method in drag and drop Uploadbox.
