---
title: Essential Studio for JavaScript  2018 Volume 2 Service pack 2 Release Notes
description: Essential Studio for JavaScript  2018 Volume 2 Service pack 2 Release Notes
platform: js
documentation: ug
---

# Essential Studio for JavaScript Release Notes

{% include release-info.html date=site.releasedate.2018_vol_2_sp2  version="v16.2.0.50" %} 

<style>
#license {
    font-size: .88em!important;
margin-top: 1.5em;     margin-bottom: 1.5em;
    background-color: #def8ff;
    padding: 10px 17px 14px;
}
</style>

<div id="license">
Starting with version 16.2 (2018 Vol 2), you need to include a valid license key (either paid or trial key) within your applications. 
Please refer to this <a href="/common/essential-studio/licensing/license-key">help topic</a> for more information 
</div>




## Common

### Bug Fixes

{:#common-bug-fixes}

* \#211621 - Added `ComboBox` component in the Theme Studio application.
## ejAutocomplete

### Bug fixes
{:#ejautocomplete-bug-fixes}

* \#212352 - Provided support for customized `tabindex` attribute.
* \#212615, #210356 - Prevented unwanted post raises on autocomplete when the remote datasource is used.
## ejCalculate

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejcalculate-bug-fixes}

*	\#207206 - The `Year(Now())` formula calculates the value properly in `IE11` and `Google Chrome` browsers.

## ejChart

### Bug fixes
{:#ejchart-bug-fixes}

* \#210910 - Now, chart will render properly, after binding values to [`primaryYAxis`](https://help.syncfusion.com/api/js/ejchart#members:primaryyaxis) through set model.
* \#212513 - Passing y values as string to [`dataSource`](https://help.syncfusion.com/api/js/ejchart#members:series-datasource) is now working properly.
## ejComboBox 

### Bug Fixes	
{:#ejComboBox-bug-fixes}

* \#212045 - Value field in `getItemData` method now returns proper value, when the value contains zero.
## ejDateTimePicker

### Bug fixes
{:#ejdatetimepicker-bug-fixes}

* \#211989 – Parsing issue with DateTimePicker component has been fixed and component will now get rendered in all compatible browsers.
* \#211410– DateTimePicker value will now get updated properly with values entered in the DateTimePicker textbox.

## ejDropDownList

### Bug Fixes	
{:#ejdropdownlist-bug-fixes}

* \##210844 - Value set using scope variable is now selected in Multiselect visual mode with checkbox.
* \#211044 - Console error is no longer thrown when DropDownList is rendered with empty dataSource and loadOnDemand set to true.
## ejDropDownTree

### Bug Fixes	
{:#ejdropdowntree-bug-fixes}

* \#212199 - DropDownTree no longer overrides the FileExplorer's TreeView subcomponent.
## ejFileExplorer

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejfileexplorer-bug-fixes}

* \#211663 – After clicking, `no` option in the `Replace confirmation` dialog of FileExplorer, this dialog is not opened again while uploading the same file, issue is fixed.

## ejGantt

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejgantt-bug-fixes}

* \#212778 – Issue in PDF export with task dependencies and milestones enabled has been fixed.
* Issue in displaying tasks with duration value as `0` in resource view Gantt has been fixed.


## ejGrid


### Bug Fixes
{:#ejGrid-bug-fixes}

*  \#210705 - Column resizing is working properly, when stacked header and summary rows are enabled. 
*  \#211459 - Width is set properly when columns have same `headerText`
*  \#210591, 211253 - Column chooser is working properly, when columns are hidden through set model.
*  \#177509 - Updating the data of the Grid using `dataSource` method works fine when virtual scrolling is used with remote data.
*  \#210543 - Filtering of date column containing values with milliseconds works fine. 
*  \#211816 - Group Indent cell is rendered properly while performing editing operation with grouping enabled.
*  \#212315 - Template column is shown in Android device when `allowResizeToFit` is enabled.
*  \#211707 - Column resizing is working properly in firefox browser when resize mode is set as NextColumn.
## ejKanban

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejkanban-bug-fixes}

* \#F138877 - Issue with shrink header alignment at enableRTL mode has fixed.
## ejListBox

### Bug fixes
{:#ejlistbox-bug-fixes}

* \#211770 - Resolved the issue with dropping list item as first item of Listbox has fixed.
## ejMediaPlayer

### Bug fixes
{:#ejmediaplayer-bug-fixes}

* \#212362 – Issues with playing vimeo videos in ejMediaPlayer component has been fixed.

## ejPager

##Bug fixes
{:#ejpager-bug-fixes}

* \#210423 – Issues with rendering pageSizeList dropdown in pager component has been fixed.

## ejPdfViewer

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejPdfViewer-bug-fixes}

* \#208885 - Now, the position of the annotations and signatures are maintained properly in the downloaded document.
* \#205565, \#210823 - Text contents of the PDF document are now rendered properly in the PDF viewer control.
* \#211766 - Size of the form fields are now maintained properly in the PDF viewer control.


## ejPivotClient

### Features

{:#ejPivotClient-features}

* \#210141 - Conditional formatting can now be applied to PivotGrid present inside PivotClient.

### Bug fixes

{:#ejPivotClient-bug-fixes}

* \#212860 - Large data can be exported now without any browser constraint.
* \#F138723 – Widget can now convert date object to specified date format properly.

## ejPivotGrid

### Bug fixes

{:#ejPivotGrid-bug-fixes}

* \#F138723 – Widget can now convert date object to specified date format properly.

## ejRadioButton

### Bug fixes
{:#ejradiobutton-bug-fixes}

* \#211633,211783 – RadioButton icon will now get aligned in the center.
* \#212849 – Required validation issue with RadioButton component has been fixed.

## ejReportViewer

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejreportviewer-bug-fixes}

* \#138473 - The header report item overlapping to body content in print preview has been resolved.
* \#210506, 210688 - Now, the multiple nested grouping toggle exports properly to excel when initial toggle state of parent group is hidden.
* \#210669 - Resolved non html tag markup text rendering problem in reportviewer.

## ejRTE

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejrte-bug-fixes}

* \#212831 - Alignment icons in RTE is now updated accordingly based on the content in IE browser.
## ejSchedule

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejSchedule-bug-fixes}

*  \#211460 - An error that occurs on an immediate creation of a normal appointment, after a spanned appointment is added to the scheduler is fixed now.
*  \#211642 - Cell selection is now retained properly, when cursor moves in and out of the scheduler layout. 
*  \#209625 - An issue that occurred while editing a single occurrence of a series multiple times has been fixed.
*  \#209440, \#212066 - An issue while dragging an appointment within the same cell is fixed now.
*  \#207851 - Duplication of appointments is now prevented, when `dataSource` is set through set model.

## ejSpreadsheet

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejSpreadsheet-bug-fixes}

*  \#211244 - Issue in “args.cancel” property, for context menu beforeOpen event is fixed.
*  \#210394 - Issue in merge cells, when text is aligned to right is fixed. 
*  \#211245 - Provided support for keyboard shortcuts, on allowKeyboardNavigation is set as false

## ejTextBoxes

### Bug Fixes	
{:#ejtextboxes-bug-fixes}

* \#211362 - Issue in typing letters in mobile devices has been fixed.

## ejTimePicker

### Bug fixes
{:#ejtimepicker-bug-fixes}

* \#210680 – TimePicker value will now gets updated properly in strict mode when value is equal to minTime or maxTime value.

## ejTreeGrid

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejtreegrid-bug-fixes}

* \#211707 –  Issue with column resizing action in Firefox browser has been fixed.
