---
title : Essential Studio for JavaScript  2018 Vol 1 Service Pack 2 Release Notes
description : Essential Studio for JavaScript  2018 Vol 1 Service Pack 2 Release Notes
platform : js
documentation: ug
---

# Essential Studio for JavaScript Release Notes

{% include release-info.html date=site.releasedate.2018_vol_1_sp2  version="v16.1.0.37" %} 



## ejDatePicker

### Bug fixes
{:#ejdatepicker-bug-fixes}

* \#198856 - Issue with watermark text value for DatePicker control in en-GB control is fixed.

## ejChart

### Bug fixes
{:#ejchart-bug-fixes}
* \#136995 - Now, column chart will render properly while setting series [`type`](https://help.syncfusion.com/api/js/ejchart#members:series-type) in pascal case.
* Now, chart will be render properly, when the [`size`](https://help.syncfusion.com/api/js/ejchart#members:size) is 99% of parent container.
## ejDataManager

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejdatamanager-bug-fixes}

* \#200772,#198430 - The primary key value as string data type, is now sent in proper format during batch update request.

## ejDiagram

### Bug fixes
{:#ejdiagram-bug-fixes}

* \#201479 - Edit textbox not positioned properly while editing BPMN shape and `showRulers` property set as true is fixed.
* \#136527 - Exception raised when defining the `dataSourceSettings` and loading in the diagram through `load` is fixed.
## ejGrid


### Bug Fixes
{:#ejGrid-bug-fixes}

*  \#202740 - Column chooser done button is enabled when optional columns are unchecked.
*  \#200250 - Summary Count is displayed in PDF export when Title Column and Display Column is same.
*  \#196266 - Grid content scrolling works fine when last row is selected.
*  \#198762 - `getDataByIndex` method works fine.
*  \#203180 - Edit Form title is displayed correctly when Localization is applied.
*  \#200586 - Summary rows with `enableVirtualization` works fine.
*  \#199739 - Rows can be selected when Virtualization is enabled.
*  \#195312 - setModel is supported for `keySettings` property.
*  \#202571 - Column chooser checkbox selection works fine when some columns are hidden.
*  \#202659 - Clear Filtering works fine when `enableVirtualization` is true.
*  \#202238 - Column headers are prevented from dragging when `showDropArea` is false.
*  \#200452 - Checkbox selection works fine while holding shift key.
*  \#200727, 203356 - Clear searching works fine when `enableResponsiveRow` is true.
## ejKanban

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejkanban-bug-fixes}

* \#202137 - Touch scrolling issue in devices has been resolved.
* \#201873 - Particular column width is not updated properly while using the width in percentage has been fixed.
## ejMap

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejmap-bug-fixes}

* \#202704 – Home button in navigation bar of the tile map is working fine even after changing the minimum zoom level.
* \#200384 - Now, map maintain its zoomed state after calling refresh method.
## ejMediaPlayer

### Bug Fixes	
{:#ejmediaplayer-bug-fixes}

* \#136707 - Bootstrap CSS dependencies removed in ejMediaPlayer control.
## ejPdfViewer

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejPdfViewer-bug-fixes}


* \#200805 - The image is now rendered properly while printing the provided PDF document. 
* \#163277 - The background color is now preserved properly while rendering the provided PDF document.
* \#201397 - Dotted lines in the provided PDF document are now rendered properly in the ejPdfViewer.
* \#201274 - Fallback font is now preserved properly while rendering the PDF document, if the used system fonts are not installed in the machine.
* \#201396 - The PDF documents are not swapped anymore, while viewing the documents from two different machines.
* \#201391 - Vertical lines in the provided PDF document are now rendered properly while viewing in lower zoom percentage. 
* \#200597, \#198377, \#F136889 - The contents of the provided PDF document are now rendered properly in the ejPdfViewer.
* \#198196, \#201705 - Font name and style are preserved properly while rendering the provided PDF document in the ejPdfViewer.




## ejPivotChart

### Bug fixes
{:#ejpivotchart-bug-fixes}

*  \#203556, #F136290 - Caption text in PivotEngine can be customized for OLAP data source (Server Mode).
## ejPivotClient

### Bug fixes	
{:#ejpivotclient-bug-fixes}

*  \#203556, #F136290 - Caption text in PivotEngine can be customized for OLAP data source (Server Mode).
*  \#202265 - Member filtering happens while KPI is placed on column axis.
## ejPivotGrid

### Bug fixes
{:#ejpivotgrid-bug-fixes}

*  \#203556, #F136290 - Caption text in PivotEngine can be customized for OLAP data source (Server Mode).
*  \#202227 - PivotGrid gets alignment properly while rendering relational data.
## ejRTE

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejrte-bug-fixes}

* \#202792  - Find and replace feature now works properly with WholeWord option.
## ejSchedule

### Bug fixes
{:#ejschedule-bug-fixes}

* \#201739 – An issue with selecting time in an appointment window is fixed, when the selected locale doesn't supports 12 hours format.  
* \#202854 – Resource details are displayed properly now in appointment window, after performing specific CRUD operations on appointments.
* \#202242 – Overlapping of appointments with different timings on the same date is prevented.
* \#202927 – The width of the schedule is now ignored from persisting.
* \#202737 – Setting the `appointmentSettings.dataSource` value via setmodel is now working fine in Agenda view. 

## ejSparkline

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejsparkline-bug-fixes}

* \#197880 – Sparkline is now rendering fine with unsorted values.
## ejSpreadsheet

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejspreadsheet-bug-fixes}

* \#202315 – Issue with chart Y axis is not refreshed on updating its range value when exceeds the max value is fixed.
* \#201509 – Issue with editing valid option doesn’t allow in list validation with cross sheet reference is fixed.
* \#197901 – Issue with calculation option is not maintained on excel importing is fixed.
* \#201255 – Issue with picture collections are not same in both 'saveAsJSON()' and 'XLExport.getExportProps()' methods is fixed.
* \#190480 – Issue with border is not applied properly with merged cells which placed inside selected range is fixed.
* \#201052 – Issue with long date formatted cells doesn't inherit the text formatting when using formula cell reference is fixed.
## ejTab

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejtab-bug-fixes}

* \#201619 - The left or right margin of the tab is no longer shown, when the tab content is more than the width.
## ejTreeView

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejtreeview-bug-fixes}

* \#202476 – In TreeView, ‘nodeDragStop’ event argument returning wrong value issue has been fixed.

