---
title: Essential Studio for JavaScript  2018 Volume 4 service pack 1  Release Notes  
description: Essential Studio for JavaScript  2018 Volume 4 service pack 1  Release Notes  
platform: js
documentation: ug
---

# Essential Studio for JavaScript  Release Notes  

{% include release-info.html date=site.releasedate.2018_vol_4_SP1  version="v16.4.0.52" %} 





## ejAutocomplete

### Features
{:#ejautocomplete-features}

* \#217407 - Improved filtering by providing option to include diacritic characters with suggestion list of AutoComplete control.

### Bug fixes
{:#ejautocomplete-bug-fixes}

* \#225245 – Resolved the issue with triggering `select` event multiple time while using `selectValueByKey` method and binding remote data to AutoComplete.
* \#223520 - Maintain the focus after resetting the autocomplete textbox.
## ejButton

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejButton-bug-fixes}

* \#222466 - Now, on rendering the button with contentType as **TextAndImage**, button text will have `pointer` cursor.
## ejCalculate
 
### Bug fixes
{:#ejcalculate-bug-fixes}

*	\#223020 - The `IFERROR` formula is computed properly when arguments contain `TIC` character.

## ejDatePicker

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejDatePicker-bug-fixes}

* \#224027 - Date parsing issue due to TimeZone offset calculation discrepancies has been fixed.
* \#221925 - On opening the DatePicker pop-up, issue with the value of **aria-active descendant** attribute of the input element has not mapped with an active date cell's ID has been fixed.
## ejDateTimePicker

### Features
{:#ejDateTimePicker-features} 

* \#220289 - Provided a new property, `disableTimeRanges` to disable a set of time slots in the TimePicker.

## ejDiagram

### Bug fixes

{:#ejDiagram-bug-fixes}

* \#153251 - Text node now renders properly in SVG mode.
* \#186056 - Issue with, "Connector position is misplaced when changes are undone in the swimlane shape" is fixed.
* \#225857 - When the lane's header is modified at runtime, it updates properly.
* \#225671 - Now, able to drag the connector's label if it is created at runtime.
## ejFileExplorer

### Breaking Changes
{:#ejfileexplorer-breaking-changes}

* \#224998 - At initial time of FileExplorer rendering, if you specify `selectedItems` or `selectedFolder` API, `select` event will not be triggered hereafter. On UI interaction or when dynamically changing the above property values, `select` event will be triggered.
## ejGantt

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejgantt-bug-fixes}

* \#223283 - Issue in parent task progress calculation has been fixed.
* \#223906 - The initial load performance has been improved for long duration tasks mapped with duration and start date values.
* \#225368 - Issue with initial load task dependency validations has been fixed.
## ejGrid

### Bug Fixes

{:#ejGrid-bug-fixes}

* \#223423 - Creation of Duplicate row is avoided when a record is updated using `updateRecord` method after sorting the data.
* \#223272 - Selection of Rows is maintained properly when `enableVirtualization` is true.
* \#222451 - Updating the `scrollSettings` through `setModel` after scrolling the data works fine when `allowVirtualScrolling` is enabled.
* \#222241 - Resizing cursor is displayed instead of Drag cursor for column resizing when grid is placed inside a dialog.
* \#222411 - Selection works fine when initial selection is enabled with `enableVirtualization` set as true.
* \#220300 - Resizing the column works fine when scrolling is enabled and `resizeMode` is set as `Control`.
* \#222104 - Conditional Formatting works fine even when some of the columns are hidden.
* \#221903 - Column Chooser works fine when the `selectedRowIndex` is given initially with virtual scrolling enabled.
* \#221798 - Expanding a detail row works fine when another expanded detail row is in edit mode.
## ejListBox

### Bug fixes
{:#ejlistbox-bug-fixes}

* \#221838 – Sorting is performed properly based on grouping header text in listbox items.
## ejMap

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejmap-bug-fixes}

*  \#224356 - Now, the stroke width is applied properly to navigation lines even when the zoom factor is specified.

## ejMediaPlayer

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejMediaPlayer-bug-fixes}

* \#220634 - Issue with, "Playing a YouTube video" has been fixed.
## ejMenu

### Bug Fixes

{:#ejmenu-bug-fixes}

* \#224987 - Menu locale throws console error when using RequireJS issue has been fixed.
## ejPdfViewer

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejPdfViewer-bug-fixes}

* \#224401 - Landscape document is now printed correctly.
* \#221606 - The PDF document is now rendered properly in full screen mode.
* \#225164 - Error will no longer occur while loading provided PDF document.

## PivotGrid

### Bug fixes
{:#ejPivotGrid-bug-fixes}

* \#225146 - Option provided to customize the width and height of grid cells during PDF exporting. 
* \#224475 - On computation in the pivot engine, the value "0" is displayed as such in grid cells. 

## ejReportViewer

### Features

* \#222076 - Provided `InScope` expression support for data region and its group elements.
* \#185159 - Provided support to use object functions in code modules.

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejreportviewer-bug-fixes}

* \#221279 - Applying transparent color for Tablix header cell content and background while exporting to PDF and Word export through the web ReportDesigner has been resolved.
* \#219805 - Now, excel sheet names with Unicode characters will export properly.
* \#221279 - Textbox report item height not updated problem based on line feed elements has been resolved.
* \#220969 - Resolved additional space problem in Excel export when the KeepWithGroup Before option is enabled in the Tablix report item.
* \#221556 - Now, report with `Globals.PageName` built-in collection can be exported directly through the ReportWriter.
* \#222390 - Resolved built-in collection `Globals.PageNumber` text run right alignment problem in PDF export.
* \#222198 - Dependent parameter value will update properly in rendering layout after clicking the view report.
* \#222840 - Now, tablix grouping column width will update properly in Excel export.
* \#219541 - Chart data label angle specified for line chart will display properly in the ReportViewer.
* \#222840 - Resolved the sheet name duplication problem when the sheet is named based on group in Excel export.
* \#223992 - Resolved the problem in initial preview and printing of Azure environment reports.

## ejRotator

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejrotator-bug-fixes}

* \#224706 - Navigation buttons are rendered properly when rotator items loaded dynamically.
## RichTextEditor

### Bug fixes
{:#ejRTE-bug-fixes}

* \#223779 - Change event triggers just for focus in with edge browser issue has been fixed. 
* \#221308 - Height not updated with RTE Edit Table properties for selected rows in table issue has been fixed.
* \#223029 - Indent is not applied correctly with ordered and unordered list issue has been fixed.
## ejSchedule

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejschedule-bug-fixes}

* \#224476 - An issue with generating Scheduler appointments, while defining recurrence rule simply as `FREQ=WEEKLY` has been fixed now.
* \#224465 - The `cellHover` event is triggering properly now, even when the work cells are customized with `workCellsTemplateId`.
* \#219100 - The appointments created during the Daylight Saving Time will now render properly in custom Scheduler views.

## ejScroller

### Features
{:#ejScroller-features}

* Scroll event bubbling from the scroll element to the parent elements can be prevented using the preventDefault property.
## ejSplitter

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejsplitter-bug-fixes}

* \#224425 - Removed splitter expand/collapse icons when dialog shown above the splitter.
## ejSpreadsheet

### Features
{:#ejspreadsheet-features}

* Provided import/export support for charts with Trendlines.
* Provided support to highlight the invalid data while updating the value in validation applied cells.
## ejToggleButton

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejToggleButton-bug-fixes}

* \#225333 - Issue with, "Compatibility CSS styles when using icon with ToggleButton" has been fixed.
