---
title: Essential Studio for JavaScript 2019 Volume 1 beta release Release Notes  
description: Essential Studio for JavaScript 2019 Volume 1 beta release Release Notes  
platform: js
documentation: ug
---

# Essential Studio for JavaScript  Release Notes(Beta)

{% include release-info.html date=site.releasedate.2019_vol_1_beta  version="v17.1.0.32" %} 





## Common

### Bug Fixes
{:#common-bug-fixes}

* \#142405 - Modified the implicitly declared variables by specifying the .NET type explicitly.
## ejChart

### Features
{:#ejchart-features}

* \#218167 - Provided the support to rotate the axis label based on different text anchor position.

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejchart-bug-fixes}

* \#225792 - Now, [`RangeArea`](https://help.syncfusion.com/api/js/ejchart#members:series-type) series will be rendered properly with empty point.
* \#142405 - Resolved the implicitly declared variables in global scope.




## ejDatePicker

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejdatepicker-bug-fixes}

* \#227744 - An issue with dynamically enabling the blackoutDates property on the navigated event has been fixed.
## ejDateTimePicker

### Features
{:#ejdatetimepicker-features}

* \#220289 - A new property, `disableTimeRanges`, has been introduced to disable a specific time range in the time pop-up for all dates.

* \#220288 - New properties, `specialDates` , `highlightWeekend` has been introduced to customize the special dates and to highlight the weekends in the calendar pop-up.
## ejDiagram


### Features
{:#ejdiagram-features}

* \#219437 - Support to flip a node/connector in both horizontal and vertical directions is added.

### Bug fixes

{:#ejDiagram-bug-fixes}

* \#153251 - Text node now renders properly in SVG mode.
* \#186056 - Issue with, "Connector position is misplaced when changes are undone in the swimlane shape" is fixed.
* \#225857 - When the lane's header is modified at runtime, it updates properly.
* \#225671 - Now, able to drag the connector's label if it is created at runtime.
* \#228679 - Issue with, "Trigger icon for intermediate events didn't match BPMN standards" is fixed.
* \#F142957 - BPMN's group node is now serialized properly even if serializationSetting's `preventDefaultValues` property is set to true.
## ejDropDownList

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejdropdownlist-bug-fixes}

* \#226915 - Incremental search functionality is working properly.

* \#219380- The DropdownList pop-up will not close during a document scroll event.
## ejGantt

### Features
{:#ejgantt-features}

* \#206486, \#222896, \#226182 - The Gantt control now provides support for quarter year and half year timeline views.

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejgantt-bug-fixes}

* \#226182 - Now it is possible to export the Gantt to PDF file in 24 hour working timescale without any issues.
## ejGrid

### Bug Fixes

{:#ejGrid-bug-fixes}

* \#228939 - Resizing works fine when the grid is rendered with detail Template.
* \#228174 - Editing a cell in the newly added row in Batch edit mode does not scroll the Grid to right. 
* \#226485 - Adding a new record in empty grid works fine, when Summary rows and Frozen rows are enabled.
* \#223940 - Styles are applied properly for the EditForm when compatibility theme is used.
* \#227418 - The data in the arguments of `rowDeselected` event contains corresponding data, when the header checkbox is unchecked.
## ejMap

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejmap-bug-fixes}

* \#226219 – Now, the map is rendered properly on resizing.
## ejPdfViewer

### Features
{:#ejPdfViewer-features}

* \#226761 – Exposed the new event ajaxRequestSuccess to notify the AJAX request success status.
* \#226632, \#227289 - Added the new fields width and height in the signatureSettings property to customize the size of signature content.


### Bug Fixes
{:#ejPdfViewer-bug-fixes}

* \#223562 - Text content of the PDF document are now rendered properly.
* \#225164 - Error will no longer occur while loading provided PDF document.
* \#225449 - Restriction summary is now preserved properly.
* \#225447 - Custom zoom value is now set properly during initial loading of a PDF document.
* \#226006 - The downloaded document name is same as the original document name, when document is loaded using the choose file from disk option.
* \#227921 - Now, the required form fields are displayed correctly.
* \#227777 - Exception will no longer occur on loading the provided PDF document.


## ejPivotClient

### Features
{:#ejpivotclient-features}

* \#195204 – Provided support to change aggregation types dynamically with UI interaction via the pivot button context menu.
## ejPivotGrid

### Features
{:#ejpivotgrid-features}

* \#204545, #225528 - Provided support to export pivot grid information without subtotals and grand totals.
## ejReportDesigner `Preview`

### Features
{:#ejreportdesigner-features}

* \#140559 and #222739 – Provided list report item support to create free-form layout in reports.
* \#209470 - Provided custom code support.
* \#222739 and #139940 – Provided the necessary APIs to programmatically handle the data source and dataset options.
* \#222138 - Provided reordering support for report parameters.
* Provided an option to order the layout of report items in the design area.

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejreportdesigner-bug-fixes}

* \#229302 - Fixed the undefined issue with the headers property when uploading an image using the image manager.
* \#227493 – Now, expressions can be set for the subreport item in the visibility property.
* \#142413 - Fixed the report parameter layout tag creation issue when creating parameters in the report.
* \#226659 - Fixed the header color and column span properties’ serialization issue in the grid report item.
* \#226659 and #223252 - Fixed the issues with the textbox report item’s expression option.
* \#223797 - Fixed the image upload issue when the file name contains Unicode values.
* \#222796 - Fixed the summary row property disabling issue in the grid report item.
* \#226659 - Fixed the issue with populating the text alignment property in the grid report item.
* \#222888 - Resolved the console errors thrown when applying font sizes continuously for the selected text in the text box report item.
* \#221279 - Resolved the issue with inheriting the alternate row cell properties from the cell styles in the grid report item.
* \#221279 - Fixed the column resizing issue in the grid report item.
* \#223348 - Fixed the parameter type conversion failure in dataset query.
## ejReportViewer

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejreportviewer-bug-fixes}

* \#224274 - Parameter label duplication occurring when navigating back from child to parent report has been resolved.
* \#228758 – Incorrect parameter value updated when printing reports has been resolved.
* \#227652 – Resolved the problem with dependent hidden parameter values not updated in preview of the Report Viewer.
* Now, the subreport is loaded in the Report Viewer using the SubreportInitializationEventArgs ReportPath property.
## ejRibbon

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejribbon-bug-fixes}

* \#225333 - A CSS compatibility issue with the contextual tabs of the Ribbon control has been fixed.
## ejRTE

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejrte-bug-fixes}

* \#226472 - An issue with applying format styles for the entire span node element has been fixed.

* \#228723 - White space characters will be considered in the max length count in the maxLength property of RTE.

*  Compatibility styles issue in mobile resolution has been fixed.
## ejSchedule

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejschedule-bug-fixes}

* \#226369,\#226370 - An issue with resizing of appointments on Scheduler timeline views, when the properties such as `startHour`, `endHour` and `timeScale` are defined together with specific values, has been fixed.
* \#225973 - An issue with rendering of appointments on Scheduler has been fixed, when the appointments are defined with same start and end date but different month value.
* \#222975 - An issue with recurrence rule string, while using `BYDAY` option altogether with `FREQ=DAY` repeat type has been fixed.
* \#224476 - An issue with generating recurring instances, while defining recurrence rule simply as `FREQ=WEEKLY` has been fixed.
* \#224465 - The `cellHover` event is triggering properly now, when the work cells are customized with `workCellsTemplateId`.
* \#219100 - The appointments created during the `Daylight Savings Time` will now render properly in custom Scheduler views.

## ejSpreadsheet

### Features
{:#ejspreadsheet-features}

* Provided import/export support for charts with Trendlines.
* Provided support to highlight the invalid data while updating the value in validation applied cells.
* Provided custom format support for negative numbers.
* Provided cellSave event support, whenever the cell value changed in the spreadsheet.
* Provided the performance improvements while scrolling with applied freeze pane.
* Provided support for add table references in name manager collection while importing.

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejspreadsheet-bug-fixes}

* \#224240, #228995 - Issue with Spreadsheet layout misaligned while applying comments for invisible rows is fixed.
* \#223667  - Export the excel file with the picture having Left and Top value as zero, throws exception is fixed.
* \#224838  - Issue with Import the List options not properly shown in data validation is fixed.
* \#224632  - Issue with copy paste for cell range with wrap text is not working properly is fixed.
* \#223877  - Issue with Format while adding the big number in nl-NL culture is fixed.
* \#F142405 - Issue with implicitly declared variables are fixed.
* \#226266  - Issue with copy paste the external data into the Spreadsheet in MAC OS is fixed.
* \#222400  - Issue with X-axis overflow while importing chart with formula range is fixed.
* \#F142794 - Issue with number format with thousand separators not properly exported is fixed.
* \#226266  - loadFromJSON method throws script error while loading JSON with freeze pane is fixed.
* \#223020  - Sum of date returns zero in spreadsheet issue is fixed.
* \#220840  - Formats did not update properly while importing the negative values with color is fixed.
* \#222047  - The decimal and thousand separators applied values are not auto recognized properly in nl-NL culture is fixed.
* \#223877  - Thousand separator issue in formula calculation for nl-NL culture is fixed.
* \#224211  - Destination format not maintained while pasting using `paste values only` option is fixed.
* \#227937  - Provided `multiSelection` method for selecting multiple ranges.
## ejToggleButton

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejtogglebutton-bug-fixes}

* \#225333 - Icon alignment issues have been resolved.
## XlsIO

### Features
{:#xlsio-features}

* \#F99670, \#185459, \#194756, \#197860 - Added support for custom table styles in Excel.
* \#128585, \#132019, \#224861 - Provided support to format unique and duplicate values in conditional formatting.
* \#199594, \#199992, \#206375, \#206374, \#209766, \#F139259, \#218497, \#225207 - Provided support for chart to image/PDF conversion in .NET Standard.
* \#222797 - Added support for complex script rendering in Excel to PDF conversion.
* Provided support for PDF conformance level in Excel to PDF conversion.
* Added support for Excel 2019 version in XlsIO.

### Breaking Changes
{:#xlsio-breaking-changes}

* \#F99670, \#185459, \#194756, \#197860 - The `TableStyles` property is added in `IWorkbook` interface to get the table styles collection for adding custom table styles.
* \#128585, \#132019, \#224861 - The `Unique` and `Duplicate` types are included in `ExcelCFType` enumeration to highlight the cells with unique and duplicate values using conditional formatting feature.
* \#199594, \#199992, \#206375, \#206374, \#209766, \#F139259, \#218497, \#225207 - Added `ExportChartImageOptions` property and `ConvertToPDF()` and `ConvertToImage()` methods in `IXlsIORenderer` class and `SaveAsImage()` method in `IChart` interface.
* \#222797 - `AutoDetectComplexScript` has been added in `ExcelToPdfConverterSettings` class to support complex script rendering in Excel to PDF conversion.
* Enumeration `PdfConformanceLevel` is added in `ExcelToPdfConverterSettings` class to set conformance level in PDF document that is converted from Excel.
* Type `Xlsx` is added in `ExcelVersion` enumeration to represent Excel version 2019 and above.


### Bug Fixes
{:#xlsio-bug-fixes}

* \#222397, \#222732 - Table with query is now preserved properly on invoking `Table.Refresh()`.
* \#223856, \#224976 - File will no longer be corrupted while copying a range with multiple list objects.
* \#226454 - The IndexOutOfRange exception will no longer be thrown while converting Excel document into PDF with header and footer.
* \#224770 - Exception will no longer be thrown while exporting worksheet data into data table.
* \#223667 - Exception will no longer be thrown if chart's data range column is deleted.
* \#225065 - Currency number format is now properly detected in XlsIO generated Excel file.
* \#224023 - Exception thrown while opening an XlsIO re-saved document with group shape has been resolved.
* \#223946 - Conditional format is now preserved properly while saving the workbook multiple times.
* \#223839 - Infinite recursive loop on modifying and saving Excel document with improper chart series indices has been resolved.
* \#224024 - Not implemented exception thrown while opening an Excel document with external formula range in check box has been fixed.
* \#223448 - Pivot table field settings are now preserved properly on resaving the Excel file.
* \#223167 - Custom time format [h]:mm:ss is now detected automatically.
* \#223376 - Exception occurs while saving the Excel document with OLE object has been resolved.
* \#223226 - The NullReferenceException thrown when converting an Excel file to HTML has been fixed.
* \#223041 - Data validation formula is now preserved properly while saving the Excel document as XML.
* \#221229 - Issue with pivot field values due to improper pivot field data format has been resolved.
* \#214445 - `Table.Refresh()` is now working properly with ODBC connection.
* \#223918 - Conditional format is now preserved properly on converting Excel document to PDF.
* \#223859 - Hyperlink is now set properly in Excel to PDF conversion.
* \#221079 - Exception thrown if print-title row height is higher in Excel to PDF conversion has been fixed.
* \#221693 - The Parameter invalid exception thrown while converting Excel document to PDF has been fixed.
* \#222797 - Incorrect Thai font in Excel to PDF conversion has been fixed.
* \#222156 - Improper number detection with invariant culture has been fixed.
* \#F141101 - Issue with incorrect parsing of comments has been resolved.
* Issue with incorrect conditional formatting operator type in resaved Excel document has been fixed.
* Setting a table column header name will no longer corrupt the Excel document.
* DataBar color is now applied properly for negative values.
* External formula is now applied properly in .NET Standard.
* Shapes rendering issue for curved shapes in Presentation to Image conversion has been fixed.
