---
title: Essential Studio for JavaScript 2019 volume 3 Main Release Release Notes  
description: Essential Studio for JavaScript 2019 volume 3 Main Release Release Notes  
platform: js
documentation: ug
---

# Essential Studio for JavaScript  Release Notes  

{% include release-info.html date="October 3, 2019"  version="v17.3.0.14" %} 




## ejAutoComplete

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejAutoComplete-bug-fixes}

* \#249473 - Issue with reset icon clearing the value when control is disabled or in read only mode is fixed.
## ejCalculate

### Features
{:#calculate-features}

* \#242768 - Support has been provided to compute the `RANDBETWEEN` formula.

### Bug Fixes
{:#calculate-bug-fixes}

* \#245099 – The `Row` formula returns the correct value when the argument is empty.

## ejChart

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejchart-bug-fixes}

* \#245249 - Now, scrolling down works properly, and chart is rendered in canvas mode when axis scroller is enabled.

## ejDataManager

### Bug Fixes	
{:#ejdatamanager-bug-fixes}

* \#236231, \#240533 - Date in string type is parsed properly
## ejDropDownList

### Breaking changes

* The `fields` property of ejDropDownList control will not accept the values if defined as `field`.

## ejGantt

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejgantt-bug-fixes}

* \#240472 – Gantt column width alignment issue in IE has been resolved.
## ejGrid 

### Bug Fixes	
{:#ejGrid-bug-fixes}

* \#239120 – Excel filter checkbox list works fine with blank value.
* \#238233 – BatchChanges are updated properly when navigate through tab key.
* \#237429 – RowSelected event works fine, when resizing enable virtualization grid.
* \#238688 – Filtering works fine with both blank and null value.
* \#247809 – Variable reference error has been fixed.


## ejPdfViewer

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejPdfViewer-bug-fixes}

* \#240707 - PDF Viewer form filling is now working properly in mobile devices.
* \#240051 - Now, the combo Box font size is maintained properly during magnification.
* \#238989 - Now, the signatureAdd Event is triggered after drawing the hand-written signature in the page.
* \#239222 - Now, the extra radio button field is not rendered in the PDF page.
* \#244474 - The abortPrint() method will now remove the loading indicator in beforePrint event.
* \#242448 - Now, the PDF Viewer renders a page correctly in higher zoom values.
## ejSpreadsheet

### Features
{:#ejspreadsheet-features}

* Provided the Conditional formatting support such as Data Bar, Color Scales, Icon Sets.

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejspreadsheet-bug-fixes}

* \#248122 - Script error throws while importing the excel file with unsupported custom formats is fixed.
* \#245099 - Indirect formula not parsed properly which contains nested formula as an argument is fixed.
## ejTreeGrid

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejtreegrid-bug-fixes}

* \#247302 – Performance issue in ExpandAll/CollapseAll with paging has been resolved.
