---
title: Essential Studio for JavaScript 2019 volume 3 Beta Release Release Notes  
description: Essential Studio for JavaScript 2019 volume 3 Beta Release Release Notes  
platform: js
documentation: ug
---

# Essential Studio for JavaScript  Release Notes  

{% include release-info.html date="September 20, 2019"  version="v17.3.0.9" %} 





## ejCalculate

### Features
{:#calculate-features}

* \#242768 - Support has been provided to compute the `RANDBETWEEN` formula.

### Bug Fixes
{:#calculate-bug-fixes}

* \#245099 – The `Row` formula returns the correct value when the argument is empty.

## ejColorPicker

### Breaking changes

* Now the colorpicker popup element will render only while opening the popup element, in order to improve the initial rendering performance. Hence, the popup element will be accessible only after the popup is opened and cannot be obtained once the component is initialized.

## ejDataManager

### Bug Fixes	
{:#ejdatamanager-bug-fixes}

* \#236231, \#240533 - Date in string type is parsed properly
## ejDiagram

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejdiagram-bug-fixes}

* \#F145126 - Exception raised with line routing constraints enabled when the viewport height is zero is now resolved.
* \#239677 - Exception raised while docking connector with node in AngularJS is now resolved.
## ejDropDownTree

### Bug Fixes	
{:#ejDropDownTree-bug-fixes}

* \#244106 – Issue with returning the text property instead of value property in change event has been resolved.

## ejGantt

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejgantt-bug-fixes}

* \#245593 – HTML tags in notes column of the exported PDF page has been removed.
* \#245653 – Now `updateRecordByTaskId` method can be used to update end date of the task
## ejGrid 

### Bug Fixes	
{:#ejGrid-bug-fixes}

* \#239120 – Excel filter checkbox list works fine with blank value.
* \#238233 – BatchChanges are updated properly when navigate through tab key.
* \#237429 – RowSelected event works fine, when resizing enable virtualization grid.
* \#238688 – Filtering works fine with both blank and null value.


## ejPdfViewer

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejPdfViewer-bug-fixes}

* \#240707 - PDF Viewer form filling is now working properly in mobile devices.
* \#240051 - Now, the combo Box font size is maintained properly during magnification.
* \#238989 - Now, the signatureAdd Event is triggered after drawing the hand-written signature in the page.
* \#239222 - Now, the extra radio button field is not rendered in the PDF page.
* \#244474 - The abortPrint() method will now remove the loading indicator in beforePrint event.
* \#242448 - Now, the PDF Viewer renders a page correctly in higher zoom values.
## ejPivotClient

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejpivotclient-bug-fixes}

* \##160856 – Stabilized sub-totals hiding option.

## ejRibbon 

### Bug Fixes	
{:#ejRibbon-bug-fixes}

* \#244236 – Backstage page hidden issue has been resolved.

## ejRTE 

### Bug Fixes	
{:#ejRTE-bug-fixes}

* \#243002 – PasteCleanupSettings not working fine for content copied from browser web page issue fixed.

## ejSplitter

### Bug Fixes	
{:#ejSplitter-bug-fixes}

* \#244477 – Issue with expanding and collapsing the splitter in iPad device has been resolved.

## ejSpreadsheet

### Features
{:#ejspreadsheet-features}

* Provided export support for custom format ("m/d/yyyy h:mm:ss tt").
* Provided custom format("(#,##0);#,##0") support.

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejspreadsheet-bug-fixes}

* \#239608 - Subtracting formula returns wrong value for date and time value is fixed.
* \#242768 - Issue with white Background image rather than transparent has been resolved.
* \#239603 - Report looks distorted when scroll down in the spreadsheet is fixed.
* \#241880 - In collaborative editing feature, Hyperlink changes updation issue has been resolved.
