---
title: Essential Studio for JavaScript 2019 Volume 2 Main release Release Notes  
description: Essential Studio for JavaScript 2019 Volume 2 Main release Release Notes  
platform: js
documentation: ug
---

# Essential Studio for JavaScript  Release Notes  

{% include release-info.html date="July 11, 2019"  version="v17.2.0.34" %} 




## ejChart

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejchart-bug-fixes}

* \#240492 - Now, the data labels for pie chart are rendered without overlapping when label position is outside.
* \#145258 - The borders for axis labels are displayed properly when showNextToAxisLine is disabled and crossesAt is provided for axis.

## ejCircularGauge

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejcirculargauge-bug-fixes}

*  \#I239986 - In Bing maps, the issue that occurs when rendering marker in the custom GeoLocation and navigate to that position has been fixed.
## ejPdfViewer

### Features
{:#ejPdfViewer-features}

* \#228936 – Removed the temporary file stored in the temp folder when calling the Unload() method.
* \#F143902 – Provided support for saving the XFA form fields.


### Bug Fixes
{:#ejPdfViewer-bug-fixes}

* \#221804 - Height of the PDF Viewer control is now maintained properly when using inside the tab control.
* \#232759 - Form fields are now rendered in proper position for the provided PDF document.
* \#233028 - Selection is now maintained properly, when double clicking outside the PDF Viewer container.
* \#239221, \#239132, \#234653 – Tab order of the form fields will now be maintained properly.
* \#239681 – Now, the input fields are focused properly while using them along with the PDF Viewer control in a page.

## ejReportDesigner `Preview`

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejreportdesigner-bug-fixes}

* \#I234814 - The exception thrown when defining a query parameter as a part of the parameter key value string in WEB API data source has been fixed.
* \#I234736 – The issue with creating a dataset when stored procedure fails to save the dataset has been fixed.
* \#I234736 – The issue “the dataset with stored procedure opens with code mode instead of design mode on dataset edit action” has been fixed.
* \#I234103 - The issue that occurs with table report item column popup height with custom header scenario has been fixed.
* \#I233809 - The exception thrown when executing a query with parameters in WEB API data source has been resolved.
* \#I233809 - The credentials prompt on preview action in the report with ODBC data source has been fixed.
* \#I232918 and #I227918 - The report parameter serialization issue that occurs when it contains empty default value or available value tags has been fixed.
* \#I232918 – The error that occurs when saving a report to SSRS has been fixed.
* \#I232567 – The improper formatting of grid report item when applying minimum column width has been fixed.
* \#I232377 - The issue that occurs with Text box format when adding multiple expression or editing the expression has been fixed.
* \#I232416 – The textbox expression reset issue with list control in the Firefox browser has been fixed.
* \#I236921 - The console errors thrown when loading data in query designer preview grid have been resolved.
* \#I237043 - The credential dialog password field text unmask issue has been resolved.
* \#I227918 – The fixed member serialization issue that occurs when saving the report with chart report item in SSRS Report Server 2016 has been fixed.
* \#I229665 - The time-out exception that occurs when executing SQL query for a table with huge data has been resolved.
* \#I231569 – The invalid query exception that occurs when using the ORDERBY clause in the dataset query has been fixed.
## ejReportViewer

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejreportviewer-bug-fixes}

* \#238917 - The issue “Export crashed in application after IIS worker process recycling” has been resolved.
* \#240245 - The issue “PostgreSQL is not working when connecting the database with authentication” has been resolved.
* \#239134 - The issue “Popup container not closed after selecting the new dropdown without closing the existing popup container” has been resolved. 
* \#237613 - The issue “Report Viewer is not rendering properly when single dataset having two reference parameters and do not have the relation with two parameters” has been resolved. 
* \#236676 - The issue “Excel export throws file error when text box report item contains unsupported formats” has been resolved. 
* \#237443 - The issue “Data labels are not rendering in Report Viewer application” has been resolved.
* \#238999 - The issue “Group total gets invalid values when field have decimal or float values” has been resolved.
* \#239097 - The issue “Report Viewer crashes when new prototype is added for Array” has been resolved.
* \#236374 - The issue “Parameter values return as null in client-side after rendering the report” has been resolved.
* \#235494 - The issue “Parameter block visibility state not moved to hidden after rendering the report in mobile device” has been resolved.
* \#235799 - The issue “Date format applied text has been changed to text format when exporting the report to Excel” has been resolved.
* \#235622 - The issue “Parameter block is not displayed when default and available values are same” has been resolved.
* \#236416 - The issue “Unable to perform drill through action for chart series in web Report Viewer” has been resolved.
* The issue “HTML exporting not working properly for chart report item” has been resolved.
