---
title: Essential Studio for JavaScript 2019 volume 2 SP1 Release Notes  
description: Essential Studio for JavaScript 2019 volume 2 SP1 Release Notes  
platform: js
documentation: ug
---

# Essential Studio for JavaScript  Release Notes  

{% include release-info.html date="August 22, 2019"  version="v17.2.0.46" %} 





## ejAutoComplete

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejAutoComplete-bug-fixes}

* \#239138 – Issue with comma in between the text value of the ejAutoComplete getting removed on form post has been resolved.
## ejCalculate

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejcalculate-bug-fixes}

* /#239628 – The arithmetic operations of date values (with format hh:mm:ss) now returns correct result.

### Features
{:#ejcalculate-features}

* /#236663 – Provided the `IFS` formula support.


## ejChart

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejchart-bug-fixes}

* \#242425 - Now, 3D pie chart is rendering properly when the first point value is 0 and data label is enabled.
* \#145197 - Range is now updating properly after chart is zoomed in. 

## ejDiagram

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejdiagram-bug-fixes}

* \#F145126 - Exception raised with line routing constraints enabled when the viewport height is zero is now resolved.
* \#239677 - Exception raised while docking connector with node in AngularJS is now resolved.
## ejDropDownList

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejDropDownList-bug-fixes}

* \#242458- Scrolling issue with jQuery version 1.9.1 has been resolved on mouse or scrollbar scrolling.
* \#241790 – The preselected values will now get selected properly while setting a different value and text field.
* \#241563 – Items will now get selected properly with remote data after filtering with sorting enabled.
* \#239468 – The encoded text value will now get decoded while using the checkAll method for the selection in ejDropDownList.
* \#237302 – Infinite looping issue in ejDropDownList control with the `enableIncrementalSearch` API enabled has been resolved.
## ejDropDownTree

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejDropDownTree-bug-fixes}

* \#239013 – Issues with the CheckAll and UncheckAll methods while using DropDownTree and TreeView together has been resolved.
* \#229305 – Issue with incorrect value assigned to the ejDropDownTree control with unordered data source has been resolved.
## ejMap

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejmap-bug-fixes}

* \#239986 - Now, marker is rendered dynamically for Bing Maps when adding marker dynamically.
## ejPdfViewer

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejPdfViewer-bug-fixes}

* \#240707 - PDF Viewer form filling is now working properly in mobile devices.
* \#240051 - Now, the combo Box font size is maintained properly during magnification.
* \#238989 - Now, the signatureAdd Event is triggered after drawing the hand-written signature in the page.
* \#239222 - Now, the extra radio button field is not rendered in the PDF page.

## ejRTE

### Bug Fixes

{:#ejrte-bug-fixes}

* \#241188 – Resolved client potential XSS issues with ejRTE control.
* \#236375 – Issue with unwanted tags and styling not removed even after enabling the `pasteCleanupSettings` API has been resolved.
## ejSpreadsheet

### Features
{:#ejspreadsheet-features}

* Provided export support for custom format ("m/d/yyyy h:mm:ss tt").
* Provided custom format("(#,##0);#,##0") support.

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejspreadsheet-bug-fixes}

* \#239608 - Subtracting formula returns wrong value for date and time value is fixed.

