---
title: Essential Studio for JavaScript 2019 volume 1 Service pack 1 Release Notes  
description: Essential Studio for JavaScript 2019 volume 1 Service pack 1 Release Notes  
platform: js
documentation: ug
---

# Essential Studio for JavaScript  Release Notes  

{% include release-info.html date=site.releasedate.2019_vol_1_SP1  version="v17.1.0.47" %} 




## Common

### Bug Fixes	
{:#common-bug-fixes}

* \#232298 - Fortify scan vulnerability issues has been fixed.

## ejCalculate
 
### Bug Fixes
{:#ejcalculate-bug-fixes}

* \#232298 – The vulnerabilities errors that are detected when scanning the code using Fortify scan have been resolved.

## ejCircularGauge

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejcirculargauge-bug-fixes}

*  \#233435 – The semi circular gauge is not rendering when the legend visible property is set to 'true' issue has been fixed.

*  \#233825 – The issue with the circular gauge is rendered small when the starting range value is equal to the minimum value of circular gauge and the ending range value is equal to the maximum value of circular gauge has been fixed.

## ejDateTimePicker

### Features	
{:#ejdatetimepicker-features}

* A new property **blackoutDates** has been introduced to disable the list of specified date values.

## ejDiagram

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejdiagram-bug-fixes}

* \#232205 - Now, the Connector is docking properly when node is nudged.
* \#228989 - The issue, "exception raised when expand/collapse the layout with multiple parents enabled" has been fixed.

## ejDraggable

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejdraggable-bug-fixes}

* \#231310 -  The **AutoScroll** property is not working in the SharePoint environment has been fixed.
* \#230310 -  The Issue, **AutoScroll** property is not working in other browsers except Chrome has been fixed.

## ejDropDownList

### Bug Fixes	
{:#ejdropdownlist-bug-fixes}

* \#229375 - While setting new value to the element attributes using the **imageAttributes** field property replaces the existing same attribute from the img element issue has been fixed.

## ejFileExplorer

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejfileexplorer-bug-fixes}

* \#228305 - In material theme, files at the bottom are not visible while sorting files based on their names has been fixed.
* \#228303 - Files are not sorted properly on using sort by name option has been fixed.

## ejGrid

### Bug Fixes

{:#ejGrid-bug-fixes}

* \#228397 - White Space issue in enableVirtualization has been fixed.
* \#228397 - Grid content is refreshed properly for the generated row when we scroll using scrollbar in enableVirtualization.
* \#232913 - Resizing works fine when the grid column Layout is set as fixed.
* \#232298 - Fortify scan vulnerability issues has been fixed.
* \#233481 - Batch Editing works fine, when selection type is multiple.


## ejKanban

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejkanban-bug-fixes}

* \#233491 – An issue with classes not removing while destroying kanban control has been fixed.
* \#230310 – Auto-Scroll is now enabled on dragging the card to bottom of the page.
## ejPdfViewer

### Features
{:#ejPdfViewer-features}

* \#228936 – Removed the temporary file stored in the temp folder while calling the Unload() method.
* \#F143902 – Provided the supports for saving the XFA form fields.


### Bug Fixes
{:#ejPdfViewer-bug-fixes}

* \#221804 - Height of the PDF Viewer control is now maintained properly while using inside the tab control.
* \#232759 - Form fields are now rendered in proper position for the provided PDF document.
* \#233028 - Selection is now maintained properly, when double clicking outside the PDF Viewer container.


## ejPivotChart

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejpivotchart-bug-fixes}

* \##232097 - Multilevel labels are now working fine with 3D combinations.
## ejPivotGrid

### Bug fixes
{:#ejpivotgrid-bug-fixes}

* \#230249 - Widget can maintain the filter collection properly while using DataTable.
* \#229299 - Drill-through data can be explored properly in tabular model.
* \#233372 - Decimal separator has been retained in the exported CSV document.

### Features
{:#ejpivotgrid-features}

* \#233372 - Delimiter option can be customized now while exporting the PivotGrid control in CSV format.


## ejRating

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejrating-bug-fixes}

* \#231467 - Rating image reference is missing in theme studio CSS files has been fixed.
## ejRibbon

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejribbon-bug-fixes}

* \#142803 - Ribbon **addTab** functionality is not working properly when the **showQAT** property is enabled issue has been fixed.

## ejRTE

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejrte-bug-fixes}

* \#232787 - The image border issue has been resolved.

## ejSchedule

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejschedule-bug-fixes}

* \#233856 - An issue with two appointments rendering with same start and end time has been fixed.
* \#234094 - Appointment split for longer duration in same date range of horizontal custom view has been prevented now. 
* \#229858, \#224377 - Appointments moving out of the Scheduler when drag the appointment to the edges in horizontal orientation has been prevented.
## ejScrollbar

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejscrollbar-bug-fixes}

* \#227727 - Vertical scrollbar prevents the event from bubbling to the parent element has been fixed.
* \#229230 -  When enabling the **autoHide** property, the scrollbars will not hide until the scroll action takes place in the scroll element area.

## ejSpreadsheet

### Features
{:#ejspreadsheet-features}

* Provided support for Insert/Delete option in Discontinuous named range.
* Provided support for maintain the Page Setup while importing and exporting.
* Provided method for getVisibleCellDetails.
* Provided support for import/export in formulas contains sheet name with special characters.

### Breaking Changes
{:#ejspreadsheet-breaking-changes}

* \#234116 - Modified the Dropdownlist CellType options which is used as a parameter of addCellType method.

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejspreadsheet-bug-fixes}

* \#230507 - Issue with the ContextMenu enum type not available in API documentation is fixed.
* \#234499 - Issue with exporting after drag and drop the comment applied empty cell is fixed.
* \#233403 - Issue with copy paste functionality misbehaves for list validation cells is fixed.
* \#232027 - Issue with formula in cell address with the prefix of negative symbol throws script error is fixed.
* \#230885 - Name manager formula returns wrong value after row insert is fixed.
* \#230374 - Range wrongly selected for navigated sheet while editing the formula is fixed.
* \#230507 - Formula returns wrong value for percentage values is fixed.
* \#233198 - Wrap text not properly applied for formula applied cells while importing is fixed.
* \#231781 - DataSource not updated while deleting cell data is fixed
* \#231010 - Comment not positioned properly while importing excel with hidden Columns is fixed
* \#229902 - Formula is not recalculated while changing the dependent cell in copied sheets is fixed
* \#231581 - Created Interface for object type parameters in public methods
* \#231581 - CustomCellType enum type not available in API documentation is fixed
* \#232269 - Discontinuous chart with dataRange property as null throws exception while exporting is fixed
* \#229066 - Horizontal scrolling misbehaves in touch pad event is fixed
* \#232298 - Fortify scan issues in Spreadsheet is fixed


