---
title: Essential Studio for JavaScript Weekly Nuget release Release Notes  
description: Essential Studio for JavaScript Weekly Nuget release Release Notes  
platform: js
documentation: ug
---

# Essential Studio for JavaScript  Release Notes  

{% include release-info.html date="May 21, 2019"  version="v17.1.0.48" %} 




## ejReportViewer

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejreportviewer-bug-fixes}

* \#228758 - The Incorrect parameter value updated when printing reports issue has been resolved.
* \#229259 - Now, the image report item in Tablix corner cell is placed at proper position in PDF export even data count is more than one.
* \#229342 - Now, the page number resets properly in the Report Viewer toolbar while performing group toggle.
* \#227126 - Resolved the issue IsArray function returns false for array collection of values.
* \#F135701, #228634 - Resolved the issue ZoomFactor API option is not working for Report Viewer.
* \#212480 - Resolved the issue “Report Viewer returns Invalid Expression when Interval part is capitalized in DatePart function”.
* \#229391 - Resolved the UBound expression returns #Error in the Syncfusion Report Viewer.
* \#226039 - Resolved the Unhandled exception that occurred when you export as PDF.
* \#229265 - The Incorrect hidden parameter values updated when change the dependent parameter values in parameter block has been resolved.
* \#228035 - The Incorrect dependent parameter labels are loading before choosing the value for the parent parameter has been resolved.
* \#219541 - Resolved the issue “chart labels values are not aligned properly along with major tick marks”.
* \#229265 - Resolved the issue “column width is reduced when multiple corner cells are added to tablix report item.
* \#226039 - Resolved the issue “Tablix cell content rendered outside of the rectangle report item when perform a toggle action in the Syncfusion Report Viewer”.
* \#230791 - The Aggregate function returns incorrect value when the scope is not provided in expression has been resolved.
* \#230396 - Report not loading when passing parameters from code behind while using intermediate service issue has been resolved.
* \#230990 - Inner tablix column width is not equal to parent tablix column width as in design issue has been resolved.
* \#226039 - Now, the chart will be rendered properly in Report Viewer if chart category field contains a null value.
* \#226039 - The issue “Tablix no row message is not displayed when Virtualization is enabled” has been resolved.
* \#226039 - The issue “Preparing exporting document message is displayed while using drill down in report viewer” has been resolved.

* \#230996 - The issue “Default value for parameter is not selected in UI when field name has space” has been resolved.
* \#228020 - The issue “Tablix visibility not working when set visibility from the conditional parameter” has been resolved.
* \#204093 - The issue “Print preview not loading new report and it shows old report in preview” has been resolved.
* \#229342 - The “Given key is not present in the dictionary” exception occurs while performing drill down action in Report Viewer has been resolved.
* \#229391 - The issue “Selected parameters not displayed properly in report viewer” has been resolved.
* \#229264 - The issue “Tablix column width is increased in report preview when it contains group with merge cell” has been resolved.
* \#228758 - The issue “Printing reports with dynamic parameter values shows print preview with initial parameter value” has been resolved.
* \#224640 - The issue “Parameter values are not updated when passing the value from main report to subreport” has been resolved
* \#177283 - The issue “Column chart data labels overlap in report viewer has been resolved.
* \#233726 - The issue “Export action not occurs when changing the report dynamically” has been resolved.
* \#234240 - Resolved the #ERROR displayed inside tablix and text box item when export the report to PDF format.
* \#232451 - The issue “Tablix report item is not rendered when export the report to Word format in print layout” has been resolved.
* \#226039 - The issue “Single text run paragraph alignment is not applied in Excel export” has been resolved.
* \#226039 - The issue “Duplicate chart data is rendered inside tablix in Excel export” has been resolved.
* \#232807 - The issue “Tablix report item headers positions are rendered incorrectly in report viewer” has been resolved.
* \#224640 - The issue “Databar height is not increased when placed inside tablix row” has been resolved.
* \#232259 - Resolved the text box overlap issue occurs when two text boxes positioned closely.
* \#226039 - The issue “No chart coordinate is created for single record in Excel export” has been resolved.
* \#226039 - The issue “Incorrect chart graph value is created in Excel export then compare viewer” has been resolved.
* \#226039 - The issue “Tablix month group header summary filed data is missing in Excel export” has been resolved.
* \#226039 - The issue “Tablix cell model column span is wrongly calculated if report has table with inner child” has been resolved.
* \#226039 - The issue “Excel export crash when the table has column static group header” has been resolved.
* \#226039 - Resolved the Unhandled exception occurred when export the report as Excel.
* \#228579 - The issue “Toolbar options are not rendered properly in re-sized window state of Angular Report Viewer” has been resolved.
* \#224253 - The issue “NRE raised while changing ReportPath of parameter report dynamically in Angular ReportViewer” has been resolved.
* \#227652 - The issue “Dependent hidden parameter displays missing a value error in initial preview of Report Viewer” has been resolved.
* \#227785 - Resolved the Login failed error thrown when subreport credentials is set through web API.
