---
title: Essential Studio for JavaScript Weekly Nuget Release Release Notes  
description: Essential Studio for JavaScript Weekly Nuget Release Release Notes  
platform: js
documentation: ug
---

# Essential Studio for JavaScript  Release Notes  

{% include release-info.html date="April 9,2019"  version="v17.1.0.40" %} 




## ejReportDesigner `Preview`

### Features
{:#ejreportdesigner-features}

* \#140559 and #222739 – Provided list report item support to create free-form layout in reports.
* \#209470 - Provided custom code support.
* \#222739 and #139940 – Provided the necessary APIs to programmatically handle the data source and dataset options.
* \#222138 - Provided reordering support for report parameters.
* Provided an option to order the layout of report items in the design area.

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejreportdesigner-bug-fixes}

* \#229302 - Fixed the undefined issue with the headers property when uploading an image using the image manager.
* \#227493 – Now, expressions can be set for the subreport item in the visibility property.
* \#142413 - Fixed the report parameter layout tag creation issue when creating parameters in the report.
* \#226659 - Fixed the header color and column span properties’ serialization issue in the grid report item.
* \#226659 and #223252 - Fixed the issues with the textbox report item’s expression option.
* \#223797 - Fixed the image upload issue when the file name contains Unicode values.
* \#222796 - Fixed the summary row property disabling issue in the grid report item.
* \#226659 - Fixed the issue with populating the text alignment property in the grid report item.
* \#222888 - Resolved the console errors thrown when applying font sizes continuously for the selected text in the text box report item.
* \#221279 - Resolved the issue with inheriting the alternate row cell properties from the cell styles in the grid report item.
* \#221279 - Fixed the column resizing issue in the grid report item.
* \#223348 - Fixed the parameter type conversion failure in dataset query.
## ejReportViewer

### Features

* \#226705, #229289 - Provided the API ‘SizeToReportContent’ to change the Report Viewer height based on the report content size.

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejreportviewer-bug-fixes}

* \#230948 - Resolved serialization problem in Report Viewer when the chart title hidden property value is specified as expression.
* \#227904 - Resolved scope exception when report variables used inside aggregate function.
* \#226039 - Now, the chart will be rendered properly in Report Viewer if chart category field contains a null value.
* \#230719 - The NullReferenceException thrown when rendering a report with image report item inside inner tablix has been fixed.
