---
title: Essential Studio for JavaScript 2019 volume 4 SP1 Release Notes  
description: Essential Studio for JavaScript 2019 volume 4 SP1 Release Notes  
platform: js
documentation: ug
---

# Essential Studio for JavaScript  Release Notes  

{% include release-info.html date="January 30, 2020"  version="v17.4.0.46" %} 





## Common

### Bug Fixes
{:#common-bug-fixes}
 
* \#258042  -  Compatibility CSS issue with the input and text box classes has been resolved.
## ejDropDownList

### Bug Fixes	
{:#ejDropDownList-bug-fixes}

* \#252050  – The issue “Text is not updated properly in DropDownList” has been resolved. 
* \#259636  – The issue with the getSelectedValue() method has been resolved. 
## ejFileExplorer 

### Bug Fixes	
{:#ejFileExplorer-bug-fixes}

* \#259173 – Compatibility CSS issue with the Uploadbox dialog of FileExplorer has been resolved.
## ejMediaPlayer

### Bug Fixes	
{:#ejMediaPlayer-bug-fixes}

* \#249824  – The issues with Media player in Chrome and IE browsers has been resolved.
## ejPager 

### Bug Fixes	
{:#ejPager-bug-fixes}

* \#261399  - Console error thrown when changing the grid page size using pager dropdown has been resolved.
* \#257486  - The issue with updating the page size using setModel for pager dropdown selection has been resolved.
## ejPdfViewer

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejPdfViewer-bug-fixes}

* \#257306 - No exception will be thrown on unloading the PDF document from PDF Viewer.


## ejSpreadsheet

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejSpreadsheet-bug-fixes}

* \#255795 - Prevent the paste action (ctrl + v) for locked cell issue is fixed.
* \#254440 - Import not working when table reference is given with formula in unloaded sheet is fixed


