---
title: Essential Studio for JavaScript 2020 volume 3 Main Release Notes  
description: Essential Studio for JavaScript 2020 volume 3 Main Release Notes  
platform: js
documentation: ug
---

# Essential Studio for JavaScript  Release Notes  

{% include release-info.html date="October 1, 2020"  version="v18.3.0.35" %} 





## Common

### Bug Fixes
{:#common-bug-fixes}

* \#280024 - The issue with “ej.widgets.core and ej.widgets.core.min file size are larger when applying filter in theme studio”  has been resolved.
## ejDateRangePicker

### Bug Fixes	
{:#ejDateRangePicker-bug-fixes}

* \# 156770 - The issue with “Apply button is not enabled while selecting the same start and end date” has been resolved.
* \# 285678 - The issue with “Selection is not applied when selecting start and end date on the left calendar and time on the right calendar” has been resolved.
## ejDropDownList

### Bug Fixes	
{:#ejDropDownList-bug-fixes}
 
* \# 288091 – The issue with “Checked items are removed when you perform a search in DropDownList” has been resolved.
## ejDropDownTree

### Bug Fixes	
{:#ejDropDownTree-bug-fixes}

* \# 157248 – The issue with “Parent item value is not maintained with input when autoCheck property is set to false” has been resolved
## ejGantt

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejgantt-bug-fixes}

* \#286869 - Touch scrolling issue has been fixed.
* \#283687 - Issue on searching parent task name has been fixed.


## ejGrid

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejgrid-bug-fixes}

* \#293041, #294120 - StackedHeader and GroupSettings through setModel works fine in jQuery 3.5.
* \#288935 - Excel filter compatibility theme style issue has been fixed.
* \#283649 - Double click on selection checkbox works fine in both IE and Edge browsers.
* \#155187 - Column width persist issue with enablePersistence has been fixed.
## ejListBox

### Bug Fixes	
{:#ejListBox-bug-fixes}

* \# 136327 - The issue with “RemoveSelectedItems is not working as expected” has been resolved.
## ejRTE

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejrte-bug-fixes}

* \#283795 – The issue with “The responsive icon pop-up is not shown when the cursor is not placed inside RTE” has been resolved.
* \#283795,\#285802,\#288669 – The issue with “When pasting the image using Ctrl+V, two copies of images are pasted” has been resolved.
* \#283608 – The issue with “When RTE content is focused with RTL mode, alignment tool is changed from JustifyRight to JustifyLeft” has been resolved.


## ejSpreadsheet

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejSpreadsheet-bug-fixes}

* \#281228 - External paste for large range is not working properly when it contains formula issue is fixed.
* \#274781 - Cell focus issue during show, hide and deleting the column is fixed.
* \#285011, #279300 - Switching sheet during sheet rename changes all sheet name issue is fixed.
* \#275701 - SUMIF with criteria contains cell's value issue is fixed.
* \#279760 - Copy and paste from one sheet to another sheet throws script error issue is fixed.
* \#282709 - Cross tab formula contains bracket is not working properly issue is fixed.
## ejToolbar

### Bug Fixes	
{:#ejToolbar-bug-fixes}
 
*  \#291225, \#292156 – The issue with “Toolbar click event is not triggered properly for items within the responsive toolbar” has been resolved. 
