---
title: Essential Studio for JavaScript 2020 volume 1 SP1 Release Notes  
description: Essential Studio for JavaScript 2020 volume 1 SP1 Release Notes  
platform: js
documentation: ug
---

# Essential Studio for JavaScript  Release Notes  

{% include release-info.html date="May 13, 2020"  version="v18.1.0.52" %} 





## Common

### Bug Fixes
{:#common-bug-fixes}

* \#271567 - The console error thrown while generating custom styles in ThemeStudio has been resolved. 
## ejAutocomplete

### Bug Fixes	
{:#ejAutocomplete-bug-fixes}

* \#272765 – The issue with “The minChar property is not working when we delete the text” has been resolved.
* \#273669 – The issue with “The showPopupButton is not showing the data based on input text” has been resolved. 
* \#272777 – The issue with “When binding remote data, popup opens even after input loses focus in AutoComplete” has been resolved.
## ejCircularGauge

### Features
{:#ejCircularGauge-features}
 
* \#274600 – `tooltipRendering` event is exposed with `text` argument to customize the tooltip text.
## ejComboBox 

### Bug Fixes	
{:#ejComboBox-bug-fixes}

* \#269689 – The issue with “NgModel binding with keyboard selection after filtering” has been resolved.
## ejDropDownList

### Bug Fixes	
{:#ejDropDownList-bug-fixes}
 
* \#273777   – The issue with “The change event is not triggered for persisted data in initial loading” has been resolved.
## ejGrid

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejgrid-bug-fixes}

* \#274100 - type 'checkbox' column works properly while binding dataSource dynamically.
* \#264582 - Style compatibility issue in excel filter's search input has been fixed.
* \#266234 - DOM elements with non unique id of the FilterDialog rendering has been fixed.
## ejMenu

### Features
{:#ejMenu-features} 

* \#270390 - Refresh method has been included for ejMenu.
## ejRTE

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejrte-bug-fixes}

* \#271382 - The issue with “The waiting popup is not hide while loading the files” has been resolved.

## ejToolbar

### Bug Fixes	
{:#ejToolbar-bug-fixes}
 
*  The issue with “Click event is triggered on active item when mousedown done outside the toolbar and ends with mouseup on toolbar item” has been resolved. 
## ejUploadBox 

### Features
{:#ejUploadBox-features} 

* \#270507 - Before remove event has been included for ejUploadBox.
