---
title: Essential Studio for JavaScript Weekly Nuget Release Release Notes  
description: Essential Studio for JavaScript Weekly Nuget Release Release Notes  
platform: js
documentation: ug
---

# Essential Studio for JavaScript  Release Notes  

## Common

### Bug Fixes
{:#common-bug-fixes}

* \#280024 - The issue with “ej.widgets.core and ej.widgets.core.min file size are larger when applying filter in Theme Studio”  has been resolved.
## ejAutocomplete

### Bug Fixes	
{:#ejAutocomplete-bug-fixes}

* \#279548 – The issue with “Time delay in data load when hitting backspace in search string” has been resolved.
## ejDropDownList

### Bug Fixes	
{:#ejDropDownList-bug-fixes}
 
* \#283279 – The issue with “The SelectedIndices property is not working in enableFilterSearch” has been resolved.

* \#277370,\#286054 – The issue with “Checked items are removed after focus out in specific cases” has been resolved.
## ejGantt

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejgantt-bug-fixes}

* \#286869 - Touch scrolling issue has been fixed.
* \#283687 - Issue on searching parent task name has been fixed.


## ejMenu

### Features
{:#ejMenu-features} 

* \#282588 - The issue with “Sub menu items are not closed on second click when openOnClick property is set to true” has been resolved. 
## ejNumericTextBox 

### Bug Fixes	
{:#ejNumericTextBox-bug-fixes} 

* \#280109  - The issue with “The minValue and maxValue properties are not working as expected for decimal values” has been resolved.
## ejRTE

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejrte-bug-fixes}

* \#283795,\#285802, \#288669 - The issue with “Image is pasted twice in RTE” has been resolved.

## ejScrollBar

### Bug Fixes	
{:#ejscrollbar-bug-fixes}

* \#269633 – The issue with “Scrolling throws console error in the Chrome browser” has been resolved. 
## ejSpreadsheet

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejSpreadsheet-bug-fixes}

* \#275701 - Provided support for SUMIF formula when the criteria contains cell value.
* \#274781 - Cell focus issue while delete the column after show/hide is fixed.
* \#282709 - Cross tab formula with bracket is not working properly is fixed.
* \#285011 - Sheet name gets wrongly updated after showing the sheet rename alert dialog issue is fixed. 
* \#281228 - External paste for large range is not working properly is fixed.
