---
title: Essential Studio for JavaScript 2020 volume 2 Main Release Notes  
description: Essential Studio for JavaScript 2020 volume 2 Main Release Notes  
platform: js
documentation: ug
---

# Essential Studio for JavaScript  Release Notes  

{% include release-info.html date="July 7, 2020"  version="v18.2.0.44" %} 





## ejColorPicker

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejcolorpicker-bug-fixes}

* \#277016 - The issue with “Dynamic value change is not reflected in the input value of Colorpicker pop-up” has been resolved.
## ejDropDownList

### Bug Fixes	
{:#ejDropDownList-bug-fixes}
 
* \#278050 , \#275449 – The issue with “The disableItemsByIndices property is not working as expected for number or string type values” has been resolved.

* \#277370 – The issue with “Checked items are removed after focus out with specific cases” has been resolved.
## ejDropDownTree

### Bug Fixes	
{:#ejdropdowntree-bug-fixes}

* \#278491 - The issue with “Value property of DropDownTree when mapping the int value” has been resolved. 
## ejGantt

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejgantt-bug-fixes}

* \#281475 - The issue with “predecessor offset value while resize taskbar” has been resolved.
* \#277078 - The issue with “milestone rendering when time as end time of working” has been resolved.
* \#275390 - The issue with “Performance lag when holiday is rendered in virtualization” has been resolved.
* \#278897 - The issue with “exporting manual taskbar” has been resolved.
## ejGrid

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejgrid-bug-fixes}

* \#266234 - Enable/Disable TextWrap through setModel option works fine.

## ejRTE

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejrte-bug-fixes}

* \#276626 - The issue with “Paste clean-up not working when invoking the refresh method” has been resolved. 

## ejSplitter

### Bug Fixes	
{:#ejsplitter-bug-fixes}

* \#275395 – The issue with “Collapsed panel expanded automatically during splitter resize” has been resolved.
## ejSpreadsheet

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejSpreadsheet-bug-fixes}

* \#278426 - Find and replace not working for a specific column issue is fixed.
* \#279069 - Issue with celltype updation while deleting the rows is fixed.
* \#275479 - Script error throws while renaming the sheet issue is fixed.
* \#271025 - Issue with LoadFromJson while disabling the allowComment property is fixed.
* \#271309 - Celltype(Dropdownlist) value not maintained while scrolling issue is fixed.
* \#279832 - Cross tab formula issue with renamed sheets is fixed.
## ejUploadBox 

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejUploadBox-bug-fixes} 

* \#278697 - The issue with “Uploadbox browse button does no’t work in material theme” has been resolved. 
