---
title: Essential Studio for JavaScript 2021 volume 1 SP1 Release Notes  
description: Essential Studio for JavaScript 2021 volume 1 SP1 Release Notes  
platform: js
documentation: ug
---

# Essential Studio for JavaScript  Release Notes  

{% include release-info.html date="May 12, 2021"  version="v19.1.0.63" %} 





## Common

### Bug Fixes
{:#common-bug-fixes}

* \# 309013, *\#304117 – The UI issues while using compatibility CSS has been resolved. 
## ejAutocomplete

### Bug Fixes	
{:#ejAutocomplete-bug-fixes}

* \# 315803 – The issue with Autocomplete filtering in visual mode has been resolved.
## ejDatePicker

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejDatePicker-bug-fixes}

* \# 320246- The issue “DatePicker format is not correct when enableStrictMode is enabled” has been resolved.

## ejDropDownList

### Bug Fixes	
{:#ejDropDownList-bug-fixes}
 
* \# 320290- The issue “Tabindex is removed from wrapper once we enable the control using enable() method” has been resolved.
## ejDropDownTree

### Features
{:#ejdropdowntree-features}

* \# 322059- Improved performance of ejDropDownTree with loadOnDemand enabled.

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejdropdowntree-bug-fixes}

* \# 317916 – The issue “setValue must be updated without query” has been resolved.
## ejNumericTextbox

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejNumericTextbox-bug-fixes}

* \# 309045 - The issue “When tab the increment and decrement arrow, the values increment/decrement by 2 steps” has been resolved.

## ejPager

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejPager-bug-fixes}

* \# 309036- The page navigation can be cancelled using args.cancel in click event of ejPager.
## ejRTE

### Bug Fixes
{:#ejRTE-bug-fixes}

* \# 323815 - The issue “Font selected through arrow keys is not maintained when focus into RTE” has been resolved.

* \# 312153- The issue “Cursor is not updated correctly when continuous click on formatting option in RTE” has been resolved.

* \# 309970- The issue “Undo operation is not working properly after removing the table in RTE” has been resolved.

