---
title: Essential Studio for JavaScript 2021 volume 3 SP1 Release Notes  
description: Essential Studio for JavaScript 2021 volume 3 SP1 Release Notes  
platform: js
documentation: ug
---

# Essential Studio for JavaScript  Release Notes  

{% include release-info.html date="November 12, 2021"  version="v19.3.0.53" %} 




## ejAutocomplete

### Bug Fixes	
{:#ejAutocomplete-bug-fixes}

* `#I338426` - The issue with “Unable to select a value, when the search string is less than the minCharacter property” has been resolved.

* `#I345605` - The issue with the “In ejAutocomplete, empty result text is selected” has been resolved.
## ejColorPicker

### Bug Fixes	
{:#ejColorPicker-bug-fixes}

* `#I346076` - The issue with “The select event is triggered initially in the ColorPicker control” has been resolved.
## ejDropDownList

### Bug Fixes

{:#ejdropdownlist-bug-fixes}

* `#I344438` - The issue with “In ejDropDownList, sorting is not proper for text with lower case” has been resolved.

## PDF Viewer

### Bug Fixes
{:#PDFViewer-bug-fixes}

* \#I344591 - The signature is saved properly in the downloaded document and it is re-loading properly.
* \#I343210 - Now, the document is saved into the specific URL.
* \#I344861 - Text is extracted properly from the PDF document.
* \#I341677 - Opacity is properly updated for the custom stamp annotations.
* \#I341803, \#F168735 - The annotationRemove event is properly triggered for all the annotations.
* \#I343938 - Now, the exportFormFields method is working properly.
* \#I342951 - Bookmark is working properly in the Mobile view.
* \#I342692 - Thumbnail and bookmark is working properly while invoking updateViewerContainer method.
* \#I337080 - Key down events are unbind properly while destroying the PDF Viewer.
* \#I335660 - Undo and redo actions are working properly for the free text annotations.
* \#I343036 - Script error is resolved while disabling the enableAnnotation property.
* \#I341074 - Now, the search dialog is closed properly.
* \#I342004 - Tooltips for thumbnail and bookmark are hiding properly.
* \#I342604 - Now, the search indicator is working properly.
* \#I342629 - Custom stamp annotation is deleted properly.
* \#I343636 - Added name attribute in the field object of formFieldRemove event.
* \*#I343736 - Able to show/hide the FormDesignerEditTool in the toolbar using the showToolbarItem API.
* \#I340840 - Current page number is updating correctly in the current page box of the toolbar.
* \#I341199 - Text Selection is working correctly and the browser's default context menu appears on mobile devices.
* \#F167880 - Able to customize the context-menu items with locale content.
* \#I343745 - Search notification dialog content is properly translated to the specified locale.
* \#I345574 - Signature indicator text and isRequired properties for signature are working properly.
* \#I346090 - Primary toolbar displayed properly while switched to form designer mode and change the properties in form field.
* \#I344082 - Signature text annotation is rendered properly.
* \#I345023 - Enabling and disabling the zoom buttons are updated properly.
* \#I344897 - signatureFieldSettings is working properly.
* \#I344888 - signatureDialogSettings is working properly for handwritten signature dialog.
* \#I342999 - Annotation drawn in the horizontal view is selected properly.
* \#I344440 - Resolved the exception throws while exporting form fields from docker.

